Assessing the fitness to drive - Mobility & Transport - Road Safety
Skip to main content
Search
Search
Mobility & Transport - Road Safety
Menu
Close
Menu
Back
Previous items
Next items
Home
News
What we do
Events
Road Safety in Member States
Driving licence in Member States
Roadworthiness Certificate and the Proof of Test
Vehicle Registration Certificate
Road Rules and Safety in EU Member States
See all
European Road Safety Observatory
Home
…
EU Road Safety policy
Priorities
Safe road use
Elderly drivers
Older Drivers
What can be done about it?
Assessing the fitness to drive
Assessing the fitness to drive
The assessment of an older person's fitness to drive can take place both as part of renewal of the driving licence at a certain age, and when a health problem has been identified.
Licensing procedures for older drivers
Practices in European countries governing the licensing of older drivers vary. Some countries require renewal of the driving licence at a certain age, others do not. Those countries that do, often require some sort of medical examination (See box on licensing procedures). Increasingly, researchers recognise that age-based mandatory assessment programmes targeting older drivers are unlikely to produce safety benefits and may have counter-productive results. One of the few evaluations of existing driver testing programmes has compared Finnish and Swedish licensing practices. Finland requires regular medical check-ups in conjunction with licence renewal starting at age 70, whereas Sweden has no such age-related control. A comparison of Finland and Sweden shows no apparent reduction in crashes as a result of the Swedish programme. However, Finland had a higher rate of fatalities among unprotected older road users than Sweden, arguably the result of an increase in the number of older pedestrians who had lost their driving licence. An Australian study reached a similar conclusion. Although the state of Victoria has no age-related licensing controls, its crash statistics for older drivers are no worse than those of other states with established testing programmes.
Given the variation in older-driver licensing programmes in European countries, it is understandable that evidence relating to the effectiveness of age-related controls is inconclusive. However, one outcome is clear: many drivers (especially women) voluntarily stop driving rather than undergo a medical examination or a driving test. Some give up their licences for health reasons or owing to difficulties in driving, although it remains to be established whether these factors are severe enough to warrant cessation of driving.
Licensing procedures in some European countries
Practices in European countries governing the licensing of older drivers vary. The results of an OECD survey show some of the differences in medical requirements for licence renewal. In addition to the medical requirements for renewal of the driving licence, some countries also require older drivers to pass driving tests.
Country
Renewal procedure
Renewal interval
Medical requirements for renewal
Belgium
No
No renewal required
None
Denmark
Yes
At age 70, issued for four years
At age 71, issued for three years
At ages 72-79, issued for two years
At ages 80+, issued for one year
If ill, shorter terms possible.
Doctor's certificate required
United Kingdom
Yes
From age 70, mandatory renewal for three-year periods
Self-declaration of ability to meet vision standard required. Any medical condition that could affect driving must be reported to the Licensing Agency
Finland
Yes
At age 45, renewal every five years
As of age 70, renewal period depends on the physician.
After age 45, medical review every five years, covering general health status and vision. Renewal requires medical examination and verification of ability by two people.
France
No
No renewal required
None
Germany
No
Renewal not determined by age
None
Ireland
Yes
Annual renewal regardless of age
At 70, a certificate of medical fitness is required
Italy
Yes
Ten-year renewal up to age 50
Five-year renewal after age 50 Three-year renewal at age 70.
Medical test required with renewal
Netherlands
Yes
At age 70, medical review required every five years
Depending on physical condition, medical review may be more frequent, vision test required
Portugal
Yes
At age 70, renewed every two years
At age 70, a medical exam is required every two years
Sweden
No
No renewal required
None
Source: OECD, 2001
Consultation of doctors
When a health problem has been identified, the question of whether to continue driving depends not on a medical diagnosis, but on the functional consequences of the illness. Moreover, a given condition may affect an individual's fitness to drive in different ways and to varying degrees.
Although medical assessment seldom provides sufficient grounds for an absolute assessment of driving ability, it does play a role when there are genuine reasons to question older drivers' functional capabilities. Physicians, especially those working in primary care, represent an important first contact and information source and are in a position to make judgements and give advice to the patient about fitness to drive. In addition to assessing specific conditions and disabilities, physicians also need to advise on the effects of any prescribed
drugs
on driving.
Mobility & Transport - Road Safety
This site is managed by:
Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport
EU Transport
Transport_EU
Contact us
Contacting DG MOVE
About us
Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport
Related links
Mobility and Transport
European Road Safety Charter
EU Urban Mobility Observatory
European Alternative Fuels Observatory
European mobility week
Performance Review Board of the Single European Sky
Related agencies
Follow the European Commission
Mastodon
LinkedIn
Bluesky
Facebook
Youtube
Other
Contact us
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility