
[PDF 1쪽]
Safer Micromobility

[PDF 2쪽]
Safer Micromobility

[PDF 3쪽]
3 Safer Micromobility
XX Safer Micromobility
Contents Key messages 4
What is micromobility? 6
Micromobility safety 7
Safety and health 8
Micromobility crash risk 9
Micromobility crashes 11
Micromobility crash factors: Infrastructure 15
Micromobility crash factors: Riders 19
Micromobility crash factors: Vehicles 23
Summary of key micromobility risk factors 28
Summary of micromobility safety recommendations 29
Acknowledgements 30
About the International Transport Forum 31
About this report 32

[PDF 4쪽]
Micromobility is becoming safer
But, an increase in severe injuries from e-scooter crashes is cause for concern. 
Overall, shared e-scooter crash risk is decreasing as their usage is increasing 
faster than injuries.
Safe infrastructure and vehicle design matter 
A focus on rider behaviour and safety equipment must be complemented by 
better infrastructure and improved vehicle design – especially for e-scooters.
Reinforcing existing policies improves safety
Road safety measures also make micromobility safer – managing speed, 
providing training to road users and enforcing rules against impaired driving 
and riding.
4 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 5쪽]
Micromobility provides viable 
options for car-free travelling and 
improves first and last-kilometre 
connectivity to public transport, 
but it must be safe.
The uptake of micromobility, boosted by the arrival of 
privately owned and shared e-scooters and e-bikes, benefits 
people and cities. It offers real alternatives for car-free travel 
and enhances first and last-kilometre connectivity to public 
transport. However, the most popular forms of micromobility 
also raise challenges for safety within busy city spaces largely 
dominated by cars. 
5 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 6쪽]
“Micromobility” describes personal vehicles that are much 
smaller and lighter than cars. There is no standard definition 
of the term. Micromobility partially intersects with or lies 
outside various vehicle classification or approval schemes 
used by public authorities or industry associations. 
Micromobility plays an important role in daily mobility on its 
own or in conjunction with other modes. It is popular in many 
contexts, is suited to many trips and is more environmentally 
sustainable than heavier and larger vehicles.
Micromobility vehicles come in a range of established ( e.g. 
bicycles), less established and rapidly evolving form factors 
(e.g. standing or seated e-scooters, electric unicycles, 
powered skateboards, etc.). 
Some of these vehicles are approved for use on roads, others 
not. Some are allowed to be used in pedestrian environments 
in some countries and cities but not in others. 
Finally, some micromobility vehicles require human exertion 
to move (bicycles, pedal-assist e-bicycles, kick-scooters, 
skateboards, etc.), and others accelerate and move only with 
direct traction from a motor. The former active modes confer 
important health benefits, unlike the latter. 
There are many ways to classify micromobility according to 
different features or policy objectives. This report adopts the 
ITF’s generic approach to classifying micromobility from a 
safety perspective – an approach which is descriptive rather 
than normative. 
Following the Safe System approach and highlighting two key 
crash severity parameters – speed and mass – the ITF 
framework identifies four broad micromobility vehicle types:
Type A: powered or unpowered vehicles weighing less than 
35 kg and with a maximum powered design speed 
of 25 km/h.
Type B: powered or unpowered vehicles weighing between 
35 kg and 350 kg and with a maximum powered 
design speed of 25 km/h.
Type C: powered vehicles weighing less than 35 kg and with 
a design speed between 25 km/h and 45 km/h.
Type D: powered vehicles weighing between 35 kg and 350 
kg and with a design speed between 25 km/h and 
45 km/h.
What is micromobility?
Type A Type B
This report focuses on e-scooters and e-bikes 
weighing less than ~35 kg, including models that 
can travel up to 45 km/h or beyond. 
6 Safer Micromobility
Type C Type D


[PDF 7쪽]
Micromobility safety
 How to assess micromobility safety?
Micromobility safety must be addressed in the broader 
context of health since poor safety results in degraded 
health outcomes. 
Safety, according to the World Health Organization, is “the 
absence of preventable harm […] and the reduction of risk 
of unnecessary harm […] to an acceptable minimum.”
Crash risk addresses the probability of harm faced by 
micromobility users. This means assessing crash 
occurrences against some measure of people’s exposure 
to those harms. For instance, what is the probability of a 
serious injury occurring for a given number of trips? This 
approach goes beyond simply counting crashes, providing 
a more accurate measure of micromobility safety.
Crashes and injuries are relevant harms. This assessment 
reviews evidence on their occurrence and nature. It then 
assesses the factors contributing to the number and 
severity of crashes – notably vehicles, riders and 
infrastructure.
According to the Safe System approach, no fatalities or 
serious injuries are acceptable. The road traffic system 
must be proactively designed, and the environment should 
be forgiving so that even when people make mistakes, 
they are not seriously injured or die. This requires focusing 
on preventing crashes, including by managing speeds and 
ensuring traffic separation where appropriate, rather than 
primarily mitigating their negative outcomes.
7 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 8쪽]
Policy must seek to ensure the highest overall health 
outcomes. Thus, it must balance the positive health 
contributions of active modes versus the adverse health 
outcomes of all micromobility when assessing safety, 
physical accessibility and other policies. 
If safety is a concern for micromobility, it is because 
crashes and ensuing injuries negatively impact health and 
impose personal and societal costs. However, physically 
active forms of micromobility confer significant health 
benefits across multiple health endpoints. 
Safety impacts from micromobility use must be considered 
in the overall context of health. On balance, active travel’s 
positive contribution to good health is far greater than the 
negative health impacts of crashes and rider exposure to 
air pollution. From a health perspective, active and passive 
forms of micromobility are not on the same footing. 
While micromobility modes like cycling and electrically -
assisted cycling are physically active, other powered 
micromobility modes, such as e -scooters, require much 
less physical exertion. Nonetheless, e -scootering and other 
forms of non-active micromobility are generally associated 
with more active lifestyles. This is possibly linked to the 
greater use of micromobility in conjunction with public 
transport and other non-private car modes. 
A key, context-based factor to consider when looking at 
micromobility-linked health outcomes is how non -active 
micromobility replaces walking and cycling versus highly 
sedentary car travel.
Safety and health
From a health 
perspective, active 
and passive forms of 
micromobility are 
not equal.
8 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 9쪽]
In addition to crash frequency, risk reflects the probability 
of crashes and their severity. It is characterised as the road 
safety outcome for an amount of exposure, such as the 
overall number of trips or distance travelled. This concept 
recognises that safety is not solely determined by the 
number of incidents but is also influenced by how much 
individuals are exposed to potential risks. In fact, risk may 
diminish even with a rise in absolute crash numbers, 
emphasising the complex interplay between exposure and 
road safety outcomes. Policy targets should not only target 
incremental risk improvements but should also aim to 
eliminate the risk of severe or fatal crashes.
Assessing crash risk for micromobility is complicated by 
two factors. First, official crash statistics suffer from 
underreporting, showing only part of the crash risk. 
Second, reliable exposure data – especially for privately 
owned micromobility trips – is rarely available. 
Micromobility crash risk
Lack of data on 
micromobility trips 
and crashes makes it 
hard to assess crash 
risk.
5 crashes / 60 trips
Crash risk  = .083
Time = t
8 crashes / 120 trips
Crash risk = .066
Time = t+1
60% increase in number of crashes
*but*
20% reduction of crash risk
If trips increase 
faster than crashes, 
then overall crash 
risk decreases
trips
trips with crashes
Safety risk can diminish even as crash numbers go up
9 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 10쪽]
XX How Safe is Micromobility?
Shared e-scooter casualties 
requiring medical treatment per 
million trips
E-scooter Safety Regulations
2021 2022 2022/ 
2021
Min age 
(y/o)
Max speed 
(km/h)
Max 
power (w)
Ride on 
sidewalks? Drink-ride limit Helmet required Mandatory 
insurance
Austria 4.1 1.5 -63.6% 12 25 600 No1 0.8 <12 y/o No
Belgium 7.1 7.0 -1.8% 16 25 NA No Same as car No No
Bulgaria NA NA NA 16 25 NA Yes1 NA <18 No
Cyprus NA NA NA 14 20 NA Yes1 0.5 Yes No
Czechia 9.2 15.6 69.3% NA 25 250 >10 y/o No <18 No
Denmark 8.6 14.8 72.3% 15 20 NA No Same as mopeds Yes  >Jan 2022 Yes
Finland 5.0 2.9 -41.6% No 25 1 000 No No Yes - as bikes No
France 9.0 12..1 34.8% 12 25 NA No1 Forbidden to ride Recommended Yes
Germany 4,3 4,0 -7.7% 14 20 500 No1 Same as car No Yes
Greece NA NA NA 15 25 NA Yes1 No Yes No
Italy 12.1 4.4 -63.3% 14 202 500 No NA <18 No5
Norway 3.2 2.7 -17.5% 12 20 NA No Same as cars <15 No
Poland 4.9 4.5 -8.0% 10 20 NA Yes1 Forbidden to ride No No
Portugal 22.3 25.0 12.0% No 25 1 000 >10 y/o Same as cars No No
Slovenia NA NA NA 144 25 NA No 0.5 <18 No
Spain 22.4 14.8 -34.1% 14-16 25 1 000 No Same as cars
Yes
>March 2022 No5
Sweden 5.2 5.3 0.5% NA 20 250 NA NA <15 - as bikes NA
Switzerland 2.2 4.4 100.3% 163 20 500 No1 Same as cars No No
United Kingdom 31.9 20.6 -35.5% 16 25
500
(trials) No Same as cars No Trial5
Cumulative -25.7%
This table illustrates how the casualty risk of shared e -
scooters has evolved between 2021 and 2022 in Europe. 
As this data refers to commercial shared e -scooter services 
involving certain types of vehicles, users, experience levels 
and uses, these findings do not reflect the evolution of 
overall e-scooter crash risk, also taking into account non -
negligible underreporting, especially of single -vehicle 
crashes.
Regulatory measures have been taken to reduce crash risk, 
yet assessing their impact requires further investigation. 
These include enforcing minimum age requirements and 
imposing maximum design speed limits and other vehicle 
design specifications. Assessing the efficacy of these 
measures will require monitoring and further investigation. 
Comparisons of e-scooter crash risk versus the crash risk 
of other forms of micromobility are sparse. Micromobility 
operators report e-scooter risk levels 32% lower than e -
bike risk within their fleets across nine European countries. 
In contrast, other studies indicate that e -scooter risk levels 
are up to four times higher for e -scooters than for bicycles. 
Multiple factors may explain these differences, including 
different types of vehicles, use patterns and contexts. 
Robust cross-micromobility crash risk assessments are 
needed to better guide policy.
shared e-scooter 
casualty risk in Europe
-26%
1 “local” authorities can make exceptions (e.g., if no cycling lane, travel speed up to 6 km/h, if the road speed limit is <30km/h or <50 km/h, riders aged 14-16 should 
only ride them on bicycle lanes etc.),  2 6km/h in pedestrian areas. 3 14 with moped license. 412, with cycling licence, 5required for sharing providers. Sources: MMfE, 
2023; ETSC, 2023.
10 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 11쪽]
Most reported micromobility crashes result in only minor 
injuries. Severe injuries comprise a small portion of total 
reported injuries, and a relatively small percentage of 
reported micromobility crashes lead to fatal injuries.
According to available data and studies, fatality rates are 
very low for all injury-inducing crashes (<1%), with no clear 
difference between e-scooters, e-bikes and conventional 
bikes. Fatality rates for severe trauma injury crashes are 
higher (<10%) than rates reported for all-injury crashes. 
Despite studies assessing fatality and severe injury risk, 
more granular data is needed to better assess the specific 
risk of different micromobility modes.
Injury severity is correlated to crash mechanisms, vehicle 
types and road users. E-scooter riders, adopting a free-
standing and upright posture, present a high and forward 
centre of gravity. Loss of control crashes lead riders to 
either attempt to hop off the e-scooter (contributing to 
lower extremity and foot injuries) or, in forward obstacle 
crashes, be catapulted forward and over the handlebar 
and steering column. Such vaulting injuries result in upper 
extremity injuries as riders seek to break their fall. These 
crashes also result in a high incidence of face and head 
injuries as face- or head-first ground contact occurs before 
the rider can brace themselves. 
Alcohol consumption further suppresses reaction times, 
leading to a high incidence of head and face injuries for 
alcohol-inhibited e-scooter riders.
Micromobility crashes
Injury severity is 
correlated to crash 
mechanisms, vehicle 
types and road 
users. 
11 Safer Micromobility


[PDF 12쪽]
XX How Safe is Micromobility?
Most e-scooter-related crashes involve the rider and no 
other road user. Single road user collisions involve falls due 
to loss of vehicle control or collisions with stationary 
objects. Such single road user collisions account for up to 
93% of all reported e-scooter-related casualties (persons 
injured and fatalities). This range is similar to the 
percentage of cyclist single road user collisions. Another 
crash type involves pedestrians tripping over e -scooters or 
fallen bicycles.
E-scooter-related casualties resulting from falls and not 
collisions with stationary objects constitute a substantial 
proportion of overall e-scooter-related casualties (64-85%). 
This range compares with the respective percentage of 
cyclist single road user collision casualties due to falls 
(75%). Injuries resulting from e -scooter-motor vehicle 
collisions account for 8-19% of all e-scooter-related 
casualties, a slightly higher proportion than for bicycle 
injuries. Up to 1 in 10 reported motor vehicle crashes with 
e-scooters or bicycles result in the injury or fatality of the e -
scooter rider or cyclist. 
Pedestrians are exposed to e-scooter crash risk in contexts 
where e-scooters operate legally or illegally on the sidewalk 
in the presence of pedestrians. This is especially the case in 
the absence of bicycle infrastructure. The co-existence of 
pedestrians and e-scooter riders results in pedestrian 
injuries (1 to 10% of all e-scooter-related casualties). 
Pedestrians are injured through collisions (30%) or tripping 
over parked e-scooters (59%).
Collisions Vehicle 
type %
Involved road 
users (% of 
casualties)
Single road user es 93% 
Multiple road users es 7%
Falls
% of total crashes es 79-90% 
% of total casualties es 64-85%
cb 75%
With objects % of total casualties es 1-39% 
With 
motor
vehicles
% of total casualties
es 8-19% 
cb 10%
% of total fatalities
es >86%
(24% hit-and-run)
cb 93-96%
With 
pedestrians
Involved 
pedestrians 
(% of total crashes)
es 4-17%
Injured pedestrians
(% of total 
casualties)
es 1-10%
tripped over 
(of non-rider 
casualties)
es 30%
Struck 
(of non-rider 
casualties)
es 59%
es=electric scooter, eb=electric bike, cb=conventional bike
Casualties: persons injured and fatalities.
All sources are detailed in the accompanying technical report.
Micromobility crash types
12 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 13쪽]
XX How Safe is Micromobility?
E-scooter injuries are characterised by injuries 
concentrating in the head and face, particularly the lower 
third (chin and jaw). Besides head and face injuries, upper 
and lower extremities injuries are also common among e -
scooter crashes. Fractures, particularly involving the lower 
arm and wrist, are a recurring injury type for e -scooter 
riders, as is lower extremity trauma. 
Most injury categories are not mutually exclusive, and 
numerous patients presented with more than one injury 
type or location.
Micromobility injury patterns
Injuries Incident description Vehicle Type %
Severity
No injury (% of riders) es 6-9%
Minor injury 
(% of casualties)
es 56-70%
eb 65-70%
Severe injury
(% of casualties)
es 8-13%
eb 5-17%
Fatality
(% of casualties)
es <1%
eb <1.3%
cb <0.2%
Injured 
Body 
Region 
(% of 
casualties)
Upper extremity es 25-55%
Lower extremity es 23-45%
Head/ Face
es Head: 18-41%
Face: 30-60%
cb
Head: 20-24%
Face: 20%
eb Head: 35%
es = electric scooter, eb = electric bike, cb = conventional bike
Casualties: injuries and fatalities.
All sources are detailed in the accompanying technical report.
13 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 14쪽]
XX How Safe is Micromobility?
E-scooter riders presented to hospitals with a greater share 
of head, face and neck injuries than cyclists. They 
experience up to twice the incidence of severe head 
injuries and between 50% to 100% more maxillofacial 
injuries compared to conventional cyclists. Even when 
wearing helmets, cyclists also present with maxillofacial 
(face, jaw and neck) injuries, albeit at lower rates than e -
scooter riders. This difference may partly be explained by 
significantly lower helmet use among e -scooter riders, 
though helmets generally do not prevent maxillofacial 
injuries. A higher incidence of alcohol -involved crashes for 
e-scooter riders may also help explain these differences. 
Injuries to lower extremities are more prevalent among e -
scooter riders than cyclists – possibly reflecting injuries 
sustained as e-scooter riders hop off their e-scooter just 
before or at the moment of losing control.
Bicycle
All injuries of AIS≥1
n=1954 (70.3%)
E-scooter
All injuries of AIS≥1 
n=825 (29.7%)
Face 20.5%
Neck 2.5%
Thorax 9.0%
Spine7.9%
Upper 
extremities 
57.6%
Lower extremities 
38.8%
Abdomen Pelvis 
3.2%
Head 24.2%
Severe injury (>AIS3) 1.9%
Face 30.6%
Neck 3.3%
Thorax 7.3%
Spine 6.7%
Upper 
extremities 
48.9%
Abdomen Pelvis 
3.4%
Lower extremities 
41.8%
Head 19.9%
Severe injury (>AIS3) 1.0%
Admitted to
intensive care  
2.1%
Admitted to
intensive care  
1.7%
Helmet use 6.1% Helmet use 30.7%
E-scooter and bicycle crash 
injuries are different
Adapted from Benhamed et al., 2022
14 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 15쪽]
The type and quality of road infrastructure have an impact 
on safety. Safe infrastructure design prevents 
micromobility crashes, whereas speed management – 
especially of cars – helps reduce both crashes and their 
severity.
Safe and convenient cycling infrastructure can attract road 
users to micromobility. The presence, quality and 
continuity of bicycle or other micromobility infrastructure 
contribute to safety outcomes. This is especially the case 
for infrastructure separated from car traffic and for low -
speed streets.
In the United States, e-scooter riders generally ride on bike 
infrastructure when it is present (27 -67%), on the road (20-
49%) and on sidewalks, where it is sometimes legal (10 -
36%). In Europe, the trend is similar, although the shares 
are different, with a higher prevalence of bicycle 
infrastructure use (up to 93%) compared to general traffic 
lanes (11-36%) and sidewalks, where it is rarely legal (4 -
24%).
Micromobility crash factors: Infrastructure
Poorly maintained 
surfaces, with 
potholes and other 
irregularities, 
contribute to 30-40% 
of e-scooter crashes. 
15 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 16쪽]
XX How Safe is Micromobility?
Risk factor Vehicle 
type %
Poor road 
infrastructure
(% of tot. crashes)
es 30-40%
Paved vs unpaved 
road es 2.66 greater crash risk
Road environment
es Traffic lane: 23-55% (all)
es Sidewalk: 17-58% (all)
es Bike lane: 0.04-25% (all)
es Intersection: 65% (% of total 
fatalities)
cb Intersection: 67% (% of total 
fatalities)
es Non-junction: 17% (% of total 
fatalities)
cb Non-junction: 17-27% (% of total 
fatalities)
es = electric scooter, eb = electric bike, cb = conventional bike
All sources are detailed in the accompanying technical report.
Poor surface quality for cycling and road infrastructure 
contributes to single road user crashes, particularly for e -
scooters. Unpaved surfaces have also been associated with 
higher crash risk. 
Sidewalks and higher-speed traffic lanes are the least safe 
locations to ride e-scooters. This is due to the heightened 
conflicts with pedestrians on sidewalks and the presence of 
obstacles, cracks and uneven joints. Narrow lane widths 
can elevate micromobility crash risk due to proximity to 
stationary and moving motor vehicles. Micromobility tracks 
separated from car traffic and correctly implemented 
shared spaces are the safest locations to ride e -scooters 
and bicycles and are associated with lower injury risk. 
Micromobility safety can be further improved when 
micromobility infrastructure is physically separated and 
when it is connected and easy to navigate on both existing 
segments and intersections.
Evidence indicates that the conflict rate of e -bikes is higher 
than that of conventional bikes, irrespective of fault. This 
evidence suggests that on sidewalks and bike 
infrastructure, the probability of conflicts is highest 
between e-bikes and pedestrians and lowest between two 
conventional bicycles. Overall, however, evidence indicates 
that the dangerous driving behaviour of car drivers causes 
the most observed conflicts
Safe infrastructure contributes 
to safe micromobility
16 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 17쪽]
XX How Safe is Micromobility?
Safe infrastructure: Recommendations for authorities
Proactively maintain micromobility infrastructure 
Authorities should implement proactive and regular 
maintenance for micromobility infrastructure, shared paths 
and road surfaces, with priority in high micromobility traffic 
areas. Proactive maintenance ensures that infrastructure 
elements like bike tracks, sidewalks and roads remain in 
good condition. This minimises the risk of crashes caused 
by potholes, debris or poorly maintained surfaces. Prompt 
reporting of infrastructure issues by road users and near -
crash hot spots by micromobility operators contributes to 
efficient, proactive maintenance. Implementing this 
measure could reduce falls, a major contributor to e -
scooter and (e-)bike-related injuries, and facilitate a 
smoother learning curve for inexperienced e -scooter 
riders. 
Establish a dedicated and well -connected micromobility 
network
Authorities should develop a comprehensive urban plan 
incorporating mixed and protected micromobility 
infrastructure, ensuring connectivity with existing 
transportation networks. Specific focus should be given to 
junction treatments to ensure increased visibility and 
awareness for car and truck traffic. Seamless connections 
with public transport, sidewalks and shared mobility 
services should be encouraged to create a well -connected 
micromobility network. The effective implementation of 
this recommendation can reduce collisions of 
micromobility vehicles with motor vehicles (especially in 
junctions) and pedestrians on sidewalks.
Establish micromobility parking policy and designate 
parking areas where needed
Authorities should formulate consistent micromobility 
parking guidelines that enhance its use. This includes 
establishing clearly delineated parking zones for e -
scooters and bicycles in high-traffic areas. These should be 
placed at the curb or, where legal and where it does not 
impede pedestrian activity, in pedestrian or shared zones. 
Their implementation requires uniform and systematic 
enforcement. It also involves careful planning and 
traditional and digital signage to guide riders to these 
designated zones. This ensures that parked micromobility 
vehicles do not impede pedestrians, contributing to safer 
urban environments. Authorities should simultaneously 
enforce motor vehicle parking policy to ensure 
micromobility infrastructure and parking zones are not 
encumbered by illegally parked cars, vans and trucks. 
Shared micromobility parking should allow sufficient 
access for operators’ support cargo bikes and vans. 
17 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 18쪽]
XX How Safe is Micromobility?
Safe infrastructure: Recommendations for shared micromobility operators
Establish collaborative partnerships with authorities for 
infrastructure condition reporting 
Micromobility operators collect valuable data on potholes, 
falls, and near-crashes through in-vehicle sensors. They 
should use this information to help authorities proactively 
maintain urban infrastructure by identifying and reporting 
areas with subpar road conditions. This effort, fuelled by 
data-driven insights, contributes to maintaining and 
improving micromobility infrastructure, ultimately 
enhancing overall safety for riders and pedestrians. 
Additionally, operators should initiate programs to evaluate 
the effectiveness and costs of this reporting.
Onboard parking zones in shared micromobility apps and 
deploy smart docking in high -traffic areas 
Shared micromobility apps should onboard designated 
parking areas and restrictions. Deploying smart docking 
and charging stations in high pedestrian or vehicular traffic 
zones can reduce obstruction on sidewalks. This ensures 
convenient access to charged shared micromobility 
vehicles. Such hubs could also minimise the use of vans or 
other vehicles for re-positioning, swapping batteries or 
otherwise re-charging shared micromobility fleets, which 
may impose additional risks on all road users. Also, 
operators can reinforce responsible parking, e.g. by 
offering rewards for users who comply with parking 
requirements or in docks if these are available.  
18 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 19쪽]
Behaviour, experience and other rider-related factors 
strongly correlate with micromobility safety. Rider-related 
safety factors associated with bicycles differ from those of 
e-scooters, especially concerning nighttime riding, alcohol 
consumption and helmet use.
Nighttime and reduced lighting conditions are positively 
correlated with both injury and fatal crashes and are 
responsible for 30-44% of e-scooter-rela ted casualties.
A prominent cause of e-scooter riders’ injuries is alcohol 
impairment. Riders under the influence of alcohol are 
more likely to be involved in injury collisions. Alcohol 
impairment reduces reaction times and crash bracing 
behaviour, thus contributing to more severe injuries.
In contrast with conventional and electric bicycle riders in 
many countries, injured e-scooter riders display low levels 
of helmet-wearing – even when required by law. 
International evidence indicates that up to 11% of 
observed shared e-scooter riders wear helmets. Helmets 
contribute to reducing the severity of head injuries, which 
are common in e-scooter crashes. Evidence suggests that 
while current bicycle helmet standards are generally well-
adapted to bicycle crashes, they may not provide sufficient 
protection from face and jaw injuries common in e-scooter 
crashes. Type C and D micromobility (travelling up to 45 
km/h) call for enhanced helmet protection that may go 
beyond current bicycle helmets.
Some e-scooter users occasionally ride with an additional 
passenger (tandem riding). Evidence indicates that 2% to 
5% of all observed trips involve two riders on a single e-
scooter. Tandem riding contributes to 17% of all e-scooter-
related casualties.
Micromobility crash factors: Riders
Rider-related safety 
factors associated 
with bicycles are 
different to those of 
e-scooters.
19 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 20쪽]
Rider-related safety factors 
(continued)
Risk factor Vehicle type Effect
Nighttime
(% of fatal 
crashes)
es 82%
eb 48%
cb 57%
es 43%
Nighttime & 
Reduced lighting 
(% of casualties)
es 30-44%
cb 14-28%
eb 18%
Nighttime crash 
risk es
4.8 crashes per 
100 000 trips
vs 2.2 for daytime 
crashes
Helmet use 
(% of casualties)
es 0-3%
cb 16-64%
eb 53%
Alcohol es Fatalities: 41%
es Casualties: 7-53%
cb Casualties: 6-13%
Double riding 
(% of casualties) es 14-17%: >one rider/ 
vehicle
Experience
es
24-37% of injuries 
occurred during the 1st 
ride
es
78% of crashes 
involved riders with low 
riding rates
es = electric scooter, eb = electric bike, cb = conventional bike
Casualties: persons injured and fatalities
All sources are detailed in the accompanying technical report.
Excessive speeding contributes to 30% of e -scooter injury 
crashes. When e-scooter riders travel on bicycle 
infrastructure, their speed is comparable to, but slightly 
higher than, conventional cyclists (~15 km/hour). E -bike 
average speeds are even higher than average conventional 
or e-scooter speeds, potentially leading to higher-severity 
crash injuries. Crash data is sparse on the use of fast e -
scooters capable of speeds up to 45 km/h (where these are 
legal). This suggests the need to capture these types of 
vehicles separately from mopeds (where they are often 
grouped) and lower-speed e-scooters.
E-scooter riders are mostly younger males. With driving 
and cycling, younger males are associated with higher 
incidences of risky behaviour, crash rates and severe crash 
outcomes. However, evidence indicates that male and 
female e-scooter riders display similar injury and crash 
probabilities. 
Inexperienced riders are linked to high crash risk, whether 
due to a limited number of rides or unfamiliarity with the 
local context. Unfamiliarity with the local context is 
particularly relevant to shared e -scooter use, considering 
that in many cities, e-scooters are used by a high share of 
non-residents. Up to 78% of e-scooter crashes involve 
infrequent users, while first-time riders face three times the 
crash risk of more experienced riders. Experience levels 
differ between riders who own their e -scooters and those 
using shared services, with the former displaying 
significantly better riding skills and greater experience. 
More experienced 
riders are safer. 
20 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 21쪽]
Safe riders: Recommendations for authorities
Implement a 30km/h (or lower) speed limit in areas with 
high micromobility use
Authorities should default to a 30 km/h (or 20 km/h) speed 
limit for car and truck traffic in areas with high 
micromobility traffic. Lowering the speed limit to 30 km/h  
or lower provides a crucial safety buffer, allowing motorists 
to react more effectively to unexpected situations and 
reducing the severity of potential micromobility vehicle -
motor vehicle collisions.
Establish low-speed limits for micromobility vehicles in 
pedestrian or shared zones
In areas where micromobility riders legally can or must 
share pedestrian spaces, authorities should default to 
establishing a safe (~6-10 km/h) speed limit for 
micromobility modes to enhance pedestrian safety. 
Implementation involves clear signage, providing access to 
geospatially-referenced speed control zones. It also 
involves educating road users on speed limitation rules 
and enforcement to reduce the risk of crashes and 
conflicts. This ensures a safe co-existence between 
micromobility riders and pedestrians.
Take enforcement action against risky micromobility riding
Authorities should impose penalties for illegal 
micromobility riding, including:
• speeding for micromobility vehicles in speed -restricted 
zones,
• riding under the influence of drugs and alcohol,
• riding under the age limit,
• riding with two or more people,
• riding on sidewalks when it is forbidden,
• riding outside designated infrastructure where its use is 
obligatory, 
• illegal parking.
Authorities should define a common limit for alcohol and 
drug levels and establish minimum age requirements for 
micromobility.
Promote the use of appropriate helmets
Authorities should encourage helmet use for private and 
shared micromobility in a way that does not discourage 
using active micromobility, which would diminish overall 
health benefits. Further research is needed regarding 
closed-face helmets or equivalent protection to protect 
against maxillofacial injuries common in e -scooter crashes. 
Authorities should require adapted helmets for riders of 
high-speed e-scooters and e-bikes (e.g. with a maximum 
speed between 25 km/h and 45 km/h and above).
Introduce rider education in secondary schools 
Micromobility training should be integrated into the 
curriculum of secondary schools. Introducing 
micromobility training at this level equips students with the 
knowledge and skills necessary for safe and sustainable 
urban mobility. Implementation should involve developing 
age-appropriate micromobility training modules, training 
qualified instructors, and integrating these lessons into the 
school curriculum to ensure students are well -prepared for 
micromobility usage.
21 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 22쪽]
Safe riders: Recommendations for shared micromobility operators
Provide safety feedback via telematics data
Operators can use telematics data on speeding, 
acceleration/deceleration or distracted riding to provide 
riders with post-trip feedback. This feedback gives riders 
insights into their habits and opportunities for operators 
or insurers to incentivise safe behaviour. Real-time safety 
alerts to riders could also be considered where these do 
not contribute to rider distraction. These alerts detect risky 
riding behaviours and notify riders of speed limits, 
especially in high-risk areas like sidewalks and junctions. 
Operators should explore how real-time safety alerts 
impact micromobility safety.
Provide economic incentives for safe riding
Shared micromobility operators may encourage helmet 
use with economic incentives such as providing free 
helmets or discounts to encourage safety-conscious 
ridership. They can also discourage inappropriate parking 
and alcohol- or drug-impaired riding with incentives or 
automatic vehicle locking, pending a better understanding 
of the necessary costs and potential public and private 
funding schemes.
Implement mandatory initial rider training 
To enhance rider safety, shared micromobility operators 
can require new riders to pass through safe riding screens 
for the first few rides they make to help ensure that riders 
are familiar with local rules and guidelines before 
embarking on their e-scooter trips.
Verify age to start riding
Operators should implement age verification procedures 
to ensure riders meet the minimum age requirements 
defined in each city, ensuring compliance with local 
regulations and safety standards.
22 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 23쪽]
The rapid uptake of micromobility vehicles, specifically e -
scooters, brings a range of safety concerns linked to 
vehicle design. E-scooters, e-bikes and conventional 
bicycles differ greatly in their design and stability. 
A key distinction between e-scooters and bicycles lies in 
the rider’s position. Unlike bicycles, e -scooter users stand 
on the vehicle while riding and can fall freely from the 
vehicle, absorbing the full impact of the fall. The standing 
posture on e-scooters has been identified as risky, 
particularly during braking to manoeuvre around or away 
from obstacles. Conversely, the seated posture offers 
improved braking and handling performance for both 
seated e-scooters and bicycles. 
The maximum design speed of powered micromobility 
vehicles remains a core determinant of safety. Evidence 
shows that the reduction of e-scooter riding speed can 
lead to a significant reduction in the mean head-ground 
impact speed during crashes. 
The differences in vehicle handling profiles affect safety 
outcomes. Bicycles are the most stable vehicles – 
especially at low speeds – followed by seated e-scooters 
and finally by standing e-scooters whose stability increases 
with speed. As with bicycles, changing the fork-steerer 
column or headtube angle of e-scooters impacts front 
wheel handling characteristics and shifts the 
rider’s/vehicle’s centre of mass. In some cases, this brings 
it nearer to the self-stability range of a larger-wheeled 
bicycle.  
Micromobility crash factors: Vehicles
E-scooters differ
greatly in their
design and stability
from both electric
and conventional
bicycles.
23 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 24쪽]
Wheel size
Larger wheels prevent deflection, improve 
obstacle clearing and provide gyroscopic 
stability, but are less agile
Steering column
Steering column near centre of gravity, high 
frame attachment point and large wheel 
size reduce handlebar vaulting risk  
Braking
Standard dual mechanical or hydraulic 
brakes and a low centre of gravity provide 
improved emergency braking
Centre of gravity
Lower and less forward centre of gravity 
contributes to more stability, better 
emergency braking and less risk of vaulting 
over the handlebar in crashes
Head height
Lower head height means less free-
fall distance and lower acceleration to 
the ground in a crash
Acceleration
Pedalling-initiated acceleration can be less 
sudden
Wheel size
Smaller wheel sizes are more agile but more 
prone to deflection and stoppage by obstacles. 
Less gyroscopic stability
Steering column
Steering column serves as a fulcrum, increasing 
the risk of the rider vaulting over the handlebar in 
forward crashes if the rider places weight on it
Braking
Single front braking reduces stability and 
contributes to loss of rear wheel ground 
contact in emergency braking
Centre of gravity
Higher and more forward centre of gravity reduces 
stability and makes the rider more prone to vaulting 
over the handlebar in forward crashes.
Head height
Higher head height and distance to the 
ground due to standing position may 
increase head acceleration in crashes
Acceleration
Throttle-initiated acceleration 
can be  more sudden
Platform
A narrow or insufficiently large platform 
reduces rider stability
BicyclesE-scooters
Various e-scooter and bicycle characteristics and 
safety
Newer shared e-scooter models 
address these design issues with 
larger wheels, wider tyres, lower and 
more anterior frame/battery weight 
distribution, dual front and back 
braking and wider foot platforms.
E-bikes are generally heavier and
operated at higher speeds than
traditional bikes, increasing kinetic
energy in self-crashes and crashes
with pedestrians and other users.
24 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 25쪽]
Compared to bicycles, the slightly higher and more forward -
facing centre of mass of e-scooters leads to forward obstacle 
crashes. In these instances, e-scooter riders exerting weight 
on the steering bar and column can induce a fulcrum effect, 
potentially leading to over-the-handlebar vaulting. Many 
recent-generation shared scooters place weight lower and to 
the rear of the e-scooter, thus improving stability.  
Head-ground impact velocities during e -scooter falls align 
with those observed in bicycle falls. However, the difference 
in injury characteristics discussed earlier suggests dissimilar 
head-ground impact configurations.
The foot platform's width determines the e -scooter rider's 
stability, with crash injury rates significantly higher in narrow 
“foot-behind-foot” riding stances than in a “side -by-side“ 
stance. 
Wheel size is linked to safety; larger wheels prevent 
deflection, improve obstacle clearing and provide gyroscopic 
stability. 
E-scooters have much smaller wheels and more solid and 
less forgiving tyres compared to bicycles. Bicycle wheels
also have a shallower angle of attack than smaller e -scooter 
wheels and are thus more stable when encountering 
obstacles of the same height. E-scooters with smaller wheels 
have been linked to a higher likelihood of falls, elevating the 
risk of head injuries for riders. Recent generations of shared 
e-scooters adopt larger front wheel sizes and air -chambered 
tyres, thus improving stability and shock absorption.  
Braking systems are critical to micromobility vehicle design, 
and their diversity warrants attention. Effective braking 
systems employ separate hand-lever operated front and rear 
brakes. E-scooters display lesser efficacy in braking than 
bicycles – especially in emergency stops – whereas e-scooters 
exhibit superior performance in steering avoidance 
manoeuvres. This suggests that crash avoidance techniques 
may differ between e-scooters and bicycles.
E-scooters and bicycles display different acceleration profiles. 
E-scooter throttled acceleration is more rapid and responsive 
than pedal-powered or motor-assisted pedal acceleration. In 
most cases of the latter, most implementations of pedal 
torque-input-linked acceleration are smoother and less 
sudden than torqueless motor engagement. 
Ensuring visibility and audibility on the road is paramount for 
the safety of both micromobility riders and pedestrians. Bikes 
often come equipped with front and rear lights, offering 
visibility in various lighting conditions, while pedal and wheel 
reflectors offer extra visibility. In contrast, e -scooters often 
feature just a single headlight, and due to their small wheel 
size, side reflectors show small movement. Without turn 
indicators on most e-scooters, riders risk instability when 
resorting to hand signals, unlike bike riders who maintain 
stability during such manoeuvres due to the gyroscopic effect 
of the larger wheels. 
In addition to the above design features, combined vehicle -
rider weight matters from a handling and safety perspective. 
Considering the standing riding position of e -scooter riders 
and the fact that the overall average weight of the scooter is 
less than the average weight of the rider, the rider’s position 
drastically impacts the centre of gravity. 
Standing e-scooters may pose physical accessibility 
challenges for those with mobility-related disabilities as 
compared to seated e-scooters, bicycles and tricycles. But, for 
some people, standing e-scooters may be more easily 
accessible. 
Shared e-scooter fleets are generally comprised of vehicles 
with safer design characteristics compared to private e -
scooters (larger wheels, wider tyres, lower and more anterior 
frame/battery weight distribution, dual front and back 
braking and wider foot platforms). They undergo regular 
technical inspections to ensure their roadworthiness. Shared 
e-scooters are also designed to conform to dynamic 
geofenced speed controls, unlike privately-owned e-scooters.
Micromobility vehicle 
design and safety
25 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 26쪽]
Set universal technical requirements for e -scooter design
Establishing and joining technical standards for e -scooters 
is essential. E-scooter standards should account for the 
following:
• maximum speed (e.g. <20/25 km/h. Vehicles operating
at higher speeds would be regulated differently and
more stringently)
• maximum power (e.g. <250-500 W. Vehicles with higher
power should be regulated differently and more
stringently)
• minimum wheel size (the larger, the better)
• foot platform area (e.g. at least 150 cm2)
• dual, separate and hand-initiated braking systems
• independent front and rear lights
• indicator lights (due to the difficulties of using hand
signals)
• reflective markings
• phone attachment feature.
Further investigation into the impact of weight on e-
scooter safety is needed due to the limited current data
and potential implications on collision energy.
Adopt riding support systems in micromobility vehicles
Authorities should foster the adoption of riding support 
systems in micromobility vehicles, including automatic 
emergency braking assistance, audible warning devices 
providing alerts when speeding, detection technology 
capable of assessing factors like unsteady movement, 
occupancy detection sensors and alerts when 
inappropriately parking.
Safe management
Establish and collect data on distinct micromobility 
categories in safety statistics
Creating distinct categories for each micromobility mode 
(i.e., conventional bikes, e-bikes, e-scooters, speed e-
scooters/e-bikes, monowheels/e-unicycles) in road traffic 
casualty records, including police records and medical 
records, improves safety assessment. Micromobility -
related incidents are often grouped under broad 
categories, making it challenging to track and understand 
the specific risks and injuries associated with these modes. 
Additionally, collecting exposure data for each category is 
essential to calculate casualty risk accurately.
Safe vehicles and management recommendations for authorities
26 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 27쪽]
Safe Vehicles  and Management Recommendations for 
Shared Micromobility Operators
Restrict e-scooter access if tandem riding and/or alcohol 
use is detected
Shared micromobility operators should be encouraged to 
incorporate in-vehicle sensors to detect tandem riding and 
introduce in-app tests to identify users under the influence 
of alcohol and drugs. If violations are detected, e -scooter 
access can be disabled, ensuring responsible and sober 
usage.
Implement riding support systems in shared e -scooters
Operators should be encouraged to implement safe riding 
support systems in e-scooters, including automatic 
emergency braking assistance and detection technology 
capable of assessing factors like unsteady movement, 
tandem riding and inappropriate parking.
Safe management
Enable in-vehicle or in-app crash detection technology  
Shared micromobility operators can enhance the safety 
and user experience of their services and address the low 
availability of micromobility crash data by integrating crash 
detection technology into their vehicles or mobile 
applications. In cases where the technology detects a 
potential crash, and the user does not respond within a 
specified timeframe, the app can automatically notify 
emergency services (e-call). Micromobility operators can 
establish partnerships with local emergency services, 
medical facilities or roadside assistance providers to 
ensure a swift response to detected crashes and improve 
the effectiveness of this app feature. However, it is crucial 
to conduct research and pilots to prevent the 
overexposure of false calls to emergency services.
Ensure systematic maintenance of micromobility fleets
Operators should maintain their fleets in good repair and 
follow state-of-the-art maintenance protocols, emphasising 
regular checks and upkeep of essential components, 
including brakes, lights and batteries. This approach 
ensures the vehicles’ continued safety and optimal 
performance, enhancing the micromobility service’s overall 
reliability.
Enable context-dependent maximum speed control using 
geofencing
Shared micromobility operators can employ geofencing 
technology to smoothly and dynamically lower maximum 
speeds to designated speed limits in high-risk zones, such 
as pedestrian areas or during risky hours like nighttime, 
prioritising safety for all road users.
27 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 28쪽]
A holistic approach that combines improved infrastructure, 
safe riding behaviour, vehicle design standards , and safety 
and exposure data collection is essential to improve 
micromobility safety.
Poorly maintained or unpaved surfaces are linked to a 
heightened crash risk. What is particularly concerning is 
that these infrastructure-related issues often result in falls, 
further emphasising the need for infrastructure 
improvements to bolster rider safety. Riding location can 
also influence crash probability, with intersections and 
sidewalks the least safe locations due to high conflict rates. 
The risk for other road users is heightened by vehicles 
being parked inappropriately .
Speeding is a significant concern, as excessive speed of 
micromobility and other vehicles (in particular cars, vans 
and trucks) is a key risk factor for e -scooter and e-bike 
injuries. Riders who exceed safe speed limits are more 
susceptible to crashes. At the same time, large motor 
vehicles speeding is the main source of serious injuries to 
users of micromobility. 
The use of helmets, particularly those adapted to crash 
injury profiles of e-scooter riders and vehicles travelling 
above 25 km/h, is another critical factor. .
The influence of alcohol and drugs, mainly among e-
scooter riders, is a significant concern, as riders under the 
influence are more likely to be involved in injury collisions 
and are more likely to suffer serious injuries. 
Visibility is an essential safety factor, with nighttime and 
reduced lighting conditions positively correlated with injury 
and fatal crashes. Low rider experience is a recurrent 
factor in e-scooter collisions, contributing to most crashes 
and falls. Furthermore, mobile phone use while riding is a 
distraction that can impair a rider’s focus and reaction 
time. 
Rider stability is a key contributor to crashes and falls and 
is linked to parameters such as the rider’s position, vehicle 
dimensions and riding experience.
Larger wheels contribute to stability and vehicle control, as 
does centring weight lower and further back . Optimised 
braking systems enhance riders’ ability to slow down or 
stop safely. 
Setting appropriate maximum speeds for e-scooters and e-
bikes helps prevent excessive travel speed, a significant 
risk factor for e-scooter, e-bike and pedestrian injuries. 
Efforts to manage micromobility travel speed (e.g. via 
geofencing) should be fair and proportionate to risk. This 
means addressing active speed management for privately 
owned micromobility vehicles as well as for larger motor 
vehicles.
Effective lighting and auditory signalling mechanisms 
ensure visibility and communication with other road users, 
reducing the risk of crashes in low-light conditions or 
situations where awareness is critical. Increasing the e -
scooter foot platform width improves stability.
The availability of micromobility safety data and exposure 
data (preferably distance or time travelled) is crucial for 
informed decision-making and effective policymaking. 
Consistently gathering and analysing data on 
micromobility crashes, injuries and near -miss incidents can 
provide valuable insights into these events’ root causes 
and patterns and address the under-reporting. 
Summary of key micromobility risk factors 
28 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 29쪽]
Safe infrastructure
Proactively maintain micromobility infrastructure 
(Authorities)
Establish a dedicated and well-connected micromobility 
network (Authorities)
Establish micromobility parking policy and designate 
parking areas where needed (Authorities)
Establish collaborative partnerships with authorities for 
infrastructure condition reporting (Operators)
Onboard parking zones in shared micromobility apps and 
deploy smart docking in high-traffic areas (Operators)
Safe riders
Implement a 30km/h (or lower) speed limit in areas with 
high micromobility use (Authorities)
Establish low-speed limits for micromobility vehicles in 
pedestrian or shared zones (Authorities)
Take enforcement action against risky micromobility  
(Authorities)
Promote the use of appropriate helmets (Authorities)
Introduce rider education in secondary schools 
(Authorities)
Enable real-time safety interventions via telematics 
(Operators)
Provide post-trip feedback via telematics data (Operators)
Provide economic incentives for safe riding (Operators)
Implement mandatory initial rider training  (Operators)
Verify age to start riding (Operators)
Safe vehicles
Set universal technical requirements for e-scooter design 
(Authorities)
Adopt riding support systems in micromobility vehicles 
(Authorities)
Ensure systematic maintenance of micromobility fleets 
(Operators)
Enable context-dependent maximum speed control using 
geofencing (Operators)
Restrict e-scooter access if tandem riding and/or alcohol 
use is detected (Operators)
Implement riding support systems in shared e -scooters 
(Operators)
Safe management
Establish and collect data on distinct micromobility 
categories in safety statistics (Authorities)
Enable in-vehicle or in-app crash detection technology  
(Operators)
Summary of micromobility safety recommendations
29 Safer Micromobility

[PDF 30쪽]
XX How Safe is Micromobility?30 Safer Micromobility
Acknowledgements The authors of this publication are Virginia Petraki and George Yannis 
of the National Technical University of Athens (NTUA) and Philippe Crist 
of the International Transport Forum (ITF). Katerina Deliali (NTUA) 
assisted with research coordination. Lauren Chester edited the 
publication with input from Michael Kloth (both ITF). Philippe Crist 
designed the publication and graphics with advice and input from Chris 
Wells (ITF).
The authors would like to thank the following CPB representatives who 
participated in the project workshop: Julian Alhers (Tier), Sarah Badoux 
(Voi), Georgia Heathman (Tier), Enzo Lanoue (Allianz Partners), Victoria 
Delicado Montoya (ENEL), Christy Pearson (Voi), Robert Morgenstern 
(Allianz), Welmoed Neijmeijer (Bolt) and Tatiana Samsonova (Bolt). 
Thank you also for other workshop participants who provided inputs at 
and after the workshop: Adil Bahi (Ministère du Transport et de la 
Logistique), Alasdair Cain (United States Department of Transportation), 
Pierpaolo Cazzola (University of California, Institute of Transportation 
Studies), Julien Chamussy (Fluctuo), Chris Cherry (University of 
Tennessee), Wanda Debauche (Belgian Road Research Center), Laurent 
Demilie (SPF Mobilité et Transports), Storm Gibbons (TIER Mobility), 
Bjorne Grimsrud (Institute of Transport Economics - Norwegian Centre 
for Transport Research), Firas Ibrahim (United States Department of 
Transportation), Jade Kawan (Cabinet Elke Van den Brandt), Laurent 
Kennel (Dott), Konstantin Krauss (Fraunhofer Institute for Systems and 
Innovation Research ISI), Soichiro Minami (Ministry of Land, 
Infrastructure and Tourism), Stefano Porro (Pirelli), Alexandre 
Santacreu (European Metropolitan Transport Authorities (EMTA), 
Sebastian Schlebusch (Dott), Lidia Signor (UITP), Alejandro Tirachini 
(University of Twente), Anatole Reboul (Fluctuo), Karen Vancluysen 
(POLIS), Marie Vignat-Cerasa (Lime), Ceri Woolsgrove (European 
Cyclists' Federation), Teruki Yamada (Ministry of Land, Infrastructure 
and Tourism). 
The authors would also like to thank  Aisling Dunne (Bolt), Alex Liaw 
(Lime), Saša Jevšnik Kafol (AVP-Slovenia) who provided additional inputs 
to the report and the following reviewers of the report: Andrea John 
(DETEC – Switzerland), Benoît Hiron (CEREMA – France), Dominique 
Mignot (Université Eiffel and ITRD), Riikka Rajamäki (Traficom – Finland), 
Manuelle Salathé (ONISR – France), Sebastian Schlebusch 
(Micromobility for Europe and Dott), Kishan Vandael Schreurs (VIAS-
Belgium), Ceri Woolsgrove (European Cyclists’ Federation) as well as 
Jagoda Egeland and Guineng Chen (both ITF). 
This publication is part of the Corporate Partnership Board (CPB) 
workstream. Sharon Masterson is the CPB manager and Philippe Crist 
provides project guidance.  
Front cover: © Philippe Crist – Paris, France 
Page  4: © Philippe Crist – Paris, France
Page 5: © Philippe Crist – Washington, DC, USA
Page 7: © Philippe Crist – Stockholm, Sweden
Page 8: © Philippe Crist – Copenhagen, Denmark
Page 9: © Philippe Crist – Barcelona, Spain
Page 11: © Photohobo, Freepik.com
Page 15: © Philippe Crist – Barcelona, Spain
Page 19: © Philippe Crist – Lille, France
Page 23: © Philippe Crist – Brussels, Belgium
Image credits

[PDF 31쪽]
XX How Safe is Micromobility?
Who we are
The International Transport Forum at the 
OECD is an intergovernmental organisation 
with 66 member countries. It acts as a think 
tank for transport policy and organises the 
Annual Summit of transport ministers. ITF is 
the only global body that covers all transport 
modes. The ITF is administratively integrated 
with the OECD, yet politically autonomous.
31 Safer Micromobility
About the 
International 
Transport Forum
What we do
The ITF works for transport policies that 
improve peoples’ lives. Our mission is to 
foster a deeper understanding of the role of 
transport in economic growth, environmental 
sustainability and social inclusion and to raise 
the public profile of transport policy.
How we do it
The ITF organises global dialogue for better 
transport. We act as a platform for discussion 
and pre-negotiation of policy issues across all 
transport modes. We analyse trends, share 
knowledge and promote exchange among 
transport decision-makers and civil society. 
The ITF’s Annual Summit is the world’s largest 
gathering of transport ministers and the 
leading global platform for dialogue on 
transport policy.
About the Corporate Partnership Board
The Corporate Partnership Board (CPB) is the ITF’s platform for engaging with the private sector 
and enriching global transport policy discussion with a business perspective. The members of the 
ITF Corporate Partnership Board are: Airbus, Allianz Partners, Alstom, Amazon, Aramco, AutoCrypt, 
Bolt, Bosch, BP, CEIIA, Cruise, DP World, Enel, ExxonMobil, FS Italiane, Honda, Hyundai Motor 
Company, Iberdrola, Kakao Mobility, Michelin, Microsoft, Mott Macdonald, NXP, PTV Group, 
RATP Group, Rolls Royce, Shell, Siemens, TotalEnergies, Toyota, Trucknet, Uber, Valeo and 
Volvo Group.
Cite this work as: ITF (2024), “Safer Micromobility”, International Transport Forum Policy 
Papers, No. 129, OECD Publishing, Paris.

[PDF 32쪽]
32 Safer Micromobility
Link to the technical report and references
About this report In 2020, the ITF published Safe 
Micromobility, a report assessing the 
safety of micromobility and new 
mobility services. In the four years 
since publication, much has changed 
in terms of the evidence base 
regarding the safety of micromobility. 
This publication summarises an 
analysis of the current evidence on 
recent micromobility safety trends and 
risks. It provides safety 
recommendations for authorities and 
micromobility operators in line with 
the Safe System approach. It does not 
address safety issues related to fire 
risk from defective or damaged 
battery packs which is typically 
addressed via battery-specific 
standards and policies. 
It is based on a comprehensive 
technical report written by the same 
authors. The technical report contains 
more detailed information and a full 
list of references for all of the data and 
findings of this publication.
