
            Evaluation of an in-vehicle monitoring system (IVMS) to reduce risky driving behaviors in commercial drivers: Comparison of in-cab warning lights and supervisory coaching with videos of driving behavior - PMC
      Skip to main content
                        An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
                            A
.gov
 website belongs to an official
                            government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
                            A 
lock
 (
Lock
                                    Locked padlock icon
) or 
https://
 means you've safely
                                connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive
                                information only on official, secure websites.
                            Search
Log in
            Dashboard
            Publications
            Account settings
        Log out
                        Search…
                            Search NCBI
            Primary site navigation
                    Search
                    Logged in as:
            Dashboard
            Publications
            Account settings
        Log in
Search PMC Full-Text Archive
Search in PMC
                                Journal List
                                User Guide
PERMALINK
Copy
    As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with,
    the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health.
    Learn more:
PMC Disclaimer
    |
        PMC Copyright Notice
J Safety Res
. Author manuscript; available in PMC: 2018 Feb 1.
Published in final edited form as: 
J Safety Res. 2016 Dec 21;60:125–136. doi: 
10.1016/j.jsr.2016.12.008
Search in PMC
Search in PubMed
View in NLM Catalog
Add to search
Evaluation of an in-vehicle monitoring system (IVMS) to reduce risky
driving behaviors in commercial drivers: Comparison of in-cab warning lights and
supervisory coaching with videos of driving behavior
Jennifer L Bell
Jennifer L Bell
a
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health Division of Safety Research, United States
Find articles by 
Jennifer L Bell
a,
*
, 
Matthew A Taylor
Matthew A Taylor
b
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health Effects Laboratory Division, United States
Find articles by 
Matthew A Taylor
b
, 
Guang-Xiang Chen
Guang-Xiang Chen
a
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health Division of Safety Research, United States
Find articles by 
Guang-Xiang Chen
a
, 
Rachel D Kirk
Rachel D Kirk
c
JAB Innovative Solutions, LLC, United States
Find articles by 
Rachel D Kirk
c
, 
Erin R Leatherman
Erin R Leatherman
d
West Virginia University, Department of Statistics, United
States
Find articles by 
Erin R Leatherman
d
Author information
Article notes
Copyright and License information
a
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health Division of Safety Research, United States
b
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health Effects Laboratory Division, United States
c
JAB Innovative Solutions, LLC, United States
d
West Virginia University, Department of Statistics, United
States
*
Corresponding author. 
JBell@cdc.gov
 (J.L.
Bell)
Issue date 2017 Feb.
PMC Copyright notice
PMCID: PMC5427714  NIHMSID: NIHMS858588  PMID: 
28160807
The publisher's version of this article is available at 
J Safety Res
Abstract
Problem
Roadway incidents are the leading cause of work-related death in the
United States.
Methods
The objective of this research was to evaluate whether two types of
feedback from a commercially available in-vehicle monitoring system (IVMS)
would reduce the incidence of risky driving behaviors in drivers from two
companies. IVMS were installed in 315 vehicles representing the industries
of local truck transportation and oil and gas support operations, and data
were collected over an approximate two-year period in intervention and
control groups. In one period, intervention group drivers were given
feedback from in-cab warning lights from an IVMS that indicated occurrence
of harsh vehicle maneuvers. In another period, intervention group drivers
viewed video recordings of their risky driving behaviors with supervisors,
and were coached by supervisors on safe driving practices.
Results
Risky driving behaviors declined significantly more during the period
with coaching plus instant feedback with lights in comparison to the period
with lights-only feedback (ORadj = 0.61 95% CI
0.43–0.86; Holm-adjusted p = 0.035) and the control group
(ORadj = 0.52 95% CI 0.33–0.82; Holm-adjusted p
= 0.032). Lights-only feedback was not found to be significantly
different than the control group's decline from baseline (ORadj
= 0.86 95% CI 0.51–1.43; Holm-adjusted p >
0.05).
Conclusions
The largest decline in the rate of risky driving behaviors occurred
when feedback included both supervisory coaching and lights.
Practical applications
Supervisory coaching is an effective form of feedback to improve
driving habits in the workplace. The potential advantages and limitations of
this IVMS-based intervention program are discussed.
Keywords:
 In-vehicle monitoring system, Occupational safety, Driving, Motor vehicle, Injury
1. Introduction
Roadway incidents are the leading cause of workplace injury death in the
United States across all industries (including the truck transportation and oil and
gas operations industries), with 1157 (25% of the total workplace injury
deaths) occurring in 2014, the most recent year for which data are available (
Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2016
; 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health,
2015
; 
Retzer, Hill, & Pratt,
2013
). Work-related roadway incidents cover events involving
transportation vehicles under normal operation, on roadways, which includes the
parts of the public highway, street, or road normally used for travel, as well as
the shoulder or surrounding areas, telephone poles, bridge abutments, trees aligning
roadway, etc. (
Bureau of Labor Statistics,
2012
).
Advancing technologies are making it possible to provide instant feedback to
drivers about vehicle and driver performance in real-time, which could help address
the large public health problem of work-related fatal roadway incidents.
Technologies such as collision warning systems and lane departure systems have been
found to reduce risky driving behaviors (following too closely, lane departures),
and rates of crashes (
Chen, Jenkins, &
Husting, 2004
; 
Lee, McGehee, Brown,
& Reyes, 2002
; 
Merrikhpour,
Donmez, & Battista, 2014
). In addition to technologies that use
sensors to detect nearby vehicles, there has been increased use of
“on-board” or “in-vehicle” monitoring of driving
behaviors (
Hickman & Hanowski, 2010
;
Hickman, Hanowski, & Bocanegra,
2010
; 
Horrey, Lesch, Dainoff, Robertson,
& Noy, 2012
; 
International
Association of Oil and Gas Producers, 2014
; 
Jones, 2016
; 
Miller,
Saldhana, Hunt, & Mello, 2013
). These in-vehicle monitoring
systems (IVMS) record vehicle maneuvers through sensors and can interface with the
vehicle's computer; they may also utilize cameras to record video footage of
the driver actively engaged in driving. The information collected by IVMS technology
can be fed back to the driver, either in real-time or retrospectively, through a
variety of mechanisms, such as in-cab warning lights, sounds, reports, or by viewing
video contents, all of which are intended to help drivers avoid or correct risky
driving behaviors.
Most of the published safety-related research on IVMS has been conducted in
non-occupational settings using volunteers (both teenage and adult) from the general
population, both in real-world driving conditions and driving simulators (
Carney, McGehee, Lee, Reyes, & Raby,
2010
; 
Donmez, Boyle, & Lee,
2007
, 
2008
; 
Farmer, Kirkey, & McCartt, 2010
; 
McGehee, Raby, Carney, Lee, & Reyes, 2007
; 
Merrikhpour et al., 2014
; 
Roberts, Horrey, & Liang, 2016
; 
Simons-Morton et al., 2013
; 
Wu, Ageuro-Valverde, & Jovanis, 2014
). Research
on effectiveness of IVMS for improving driving behaviors of workers during work time
is less extensive, and has focused on short-haul and long-haul truck drivers (
Hickman & Geller, 2003
; 
Hickman & Hanowski, 2011
; 
Lisk, Cruice, & Pollard, 2013
), technicians
(unspecified industry) driving to make service calls (
Toledo, Musicant, & Lotan, 2008
), and emergency
medical services (EMS) drivers (
Levick &
Swanson, 2005
). All of the aforementioned studies done in occupational
settings reported at least some success during the feedback period in reducing
undesirable driving behaviors.
A key component of IVMS technology is the way in which feedback on driving
performance is delivered to the driver. In three of these studies (
Hickman & Geller, 2003
; 
Levick & Swanson, 2005
; 
Toledo et al., 2008
), feedback came in the form of in-cab
sounds, lights and/or summary reports to the driver, was available on vehicle
performance measures only as effected by the driver, such as speeding, hard braking,
and excessive idling, and did not include supervisory monitoring and feedback on
driving data. In the population of EMS drivers (
Levick & Swanson, 2005
) seatbelt use was monitored as an outcome
through a seatbelt sensor, but the authors acknowledged that the drivers may have
circumvented the sensor by fastening and placing the belt behind their backs; thus,
the actual rate of seat belt use may have been much lower than reported.
Only two of the aforementioned studies (
Hickman & Hanowski, 2011
; 
Lisk
et al., 2013
) used an IVMS that had a driver-facing camera capable of
audio and video event capture and employed supervisory coaching of the driver, using
videos of the driver as a feedback mechanism. The 
Lisk et al. (2013)
 study was a pilot effort in 37 commercial vehicles
doing short-haul operations. They found a beneficial effect through a 60%
reduction in the number of incidents and an 86% reduction in the cost of
vehicle crashes from the three years prior to three years post-implementation of
IVMS and supervisory coaching of drivers. Limitations of this pilot study include
not reporting information on potential variation in number of vehicles, miles, or
time driven over the course of the study period, and the lack of a control group.
Hickman and Hanowski (2011)
 found that
supervisors' coaching of long-haul truck drivers resulted in a reduction in
risky driving behaviors (examples include driving unbelted, following too closely,
and improper lane change) by 37 and 52% in two carriers, respectively. Their
study involved in-cab feedback with lights to the driver, as well as supervisory
coaching using video events. Because the data collection involved video footage of
active driving, the study was able target a much broader range of unsafe driving
events than previous studies, including behaviors such as belt use, hand-held phone
use and other distractions, driving too close to other vehicles, and unsafe lane
changes. Limitations of this study were that no control group was included, and the
study was completed in a relatively short time span (four months total to encompass
both baseline and follow-up periods).
Although the 
Hickman and Hanowski
(2011)
 study demonstrated the potential for IVMS feedback to reduce
unsafe driving events in long-haul truck drivers, further research is needed to
complement this work and validate these results, particularly in industry fleets
with varying usage patterns. The objective of this research was to evaluate the
effectiveness of two types of feedback from a commercially available IVMS in
reducing two outcomes, overall risky driving behaviors, as well as driving unbelted,
in drivers operating trucks for work in the truck transportation (box trucks) and
oil and gas operations support (pickup trucks) industries. The first type of
feedback consisted of warning lights from an in-cab device which notified drivers
when they performed harsh driving maneuvers (i.e., hard braking, speeding, swerving
that exceeds set accelerometer thresholds), and the second type of feedback was
coaching by supervisors on safe driving practices that included viewing video
recordings of drivers' own risky driving behaviors.
2. Methods
2.1. In-vehicle monitoring system technology
This study used a commercially available IVMS from one vendor, and this
IVMS vendor supplied all equipment, coding of videos for observed driving
behaviors (
Table 1
), and training on the
use of the technology. For privacy purposes, NIOSH researchers did not code
videos. However, the entire database of videos used in the study was accessible
both to the industry partners and to the IVMS vendor. The IVMS vendor is not
named here so as not to imply endorsement of any one IVMS vendor, as multiple
commercial vendors exist to provide similar types of technology and
services.
Table 1.
List of risky driving behaviors coded from triggered video events.
Fundamental Driving Errors
 Unprofessional Driving 
Unsafe backing
Unsafe braking
Unsafe lane change/merging/passing
Unsafe railroad crossing
Unsafe turning
Lane departure/straddling lanes
Competitive/aggressive driving
Driving the wrong way – on roadway
Driving the wrong way – off roadway
Curb check/jumped curb
 Vehicle control 
Driving with two hands off wheel
Unattended moving vehicles
 Stopping 
Incomplete stop at light
Incomplete stop at stop sign
Failure to attempt to stop at light
Failure to attempt to stop at stop sign
False start
Failure to yield to pedestrian(s)
Failure to yield to vehicle(s)
 Speeding 
Moderate speeding (<10 mph over limit)
Excessive speeding (>10 mph over limit)
Exceeded maximum fleet speed
 Situational awareness 
Unsafe following (<1 s)
Unsafe following (1.25–2 s)
Unsafe following (2.25–3 s)
Unsafe following (3.25–4 s)
Not checking mirrors
Not scanning road ahead
Not scanning intersection
Distracted & inattentive driving
 Distraction 
Mobile Phone – texting/dialing
Mobile phone – talking (handheld)
Mobile phone – talking (hands free)
Operating other mobile device
Reading paperwork
Grooming/personal hygiene
Food
Beverage
Smoking
Passenger(s)
Other task
Fatigue 
Drowsy/falling asleep
Yawning
Other unsafe Driving
 Seatbelts 
Driver seatbelt unfastened (<20 mph)
Driver seatbelt unfastened (>20 mph)
Passenger seatbelt unfastened
Non-driving observations
 Unprofessional conduct 
Rude gesture
Raised voice
 Event of interest 
Captured passenger incident
Captured roadway incident
Equipment
 Obstructed view 
Obstructed view of driver
Obstructed exterior view
 Tampering 
Tampering/abusing equipment
 Recorder issues 
Suboptimal camera position
Non-performing camera
Open in a new tab
Each IVMS unit included two camera views: a forward-facing exterior
camera view and driver-facing interior camera. The IVMS unit captured two types
of video events: (a) regular-threshold triggered video events and (b)
constant-threshold triggered video events, with the constant-threshold triggered
video events being used for the analysis in this study. Regular-threshold
triggered video events represent video events that are typically captured within
the IVMS vendor's commercial services program, whereas
constant-threshold triggered video events were captured for the specific
purposes of this study as explained further below. For both types of events, the
IVMS unit was configured to capture 30-s of video, audio and other event data
(15 s before and 15 s after the trigger). The recorded video events were given a
time and date stamp, and the unit of measurement was video events per vehicle
per 24-h day.
Both regular-threshold and constant-threshold triggered video events
relied on the same set of triggering algorithms that primarily use a three-axial
accelerometer. These triggering algorithms detect vehicle maneuvers such as hard
braking, acceleration, cornering, swerving, and sudden forces.
Different methods were used to manage the triggering sensitivity levels
for the two sets of video events. Sensitivity levels for regular-threshold
triggered events were set to initial levels based on the IVMS vendor's
guidance and experience with driving events, as has been done in other published
research (e.g., 
Hickman & Hanowski,
2011
; 
McGehee et al., 2007
),
with the goal of maximizing the capture of safety-related events, and minimizing
the capture of videos that were recorded but don't show any risky
driving behaviors by the driver. Then, triggering sensitivity levels were
periodically changed, if needed, to ensure consistent inflow of video events as
drivers learned to “drive softer” and avoid triggering cameras.
The changes were consistently applied to all vehicles of a given type to ensure
that drivers were always evaluated based on a consistent set of criteria. From
the vendor's perspective, this method ensures a consistent sampling rate
for driver behaviors in order to avoid overstating the improvement of driver
behaviors. For example, if one simply counts the number of video events that
involve mobile phone use of a given driver but leaves the triggering sensitivity
levels constant for the period of the study, any measured reduction in the
number of video events with risky distracted behavior would have two components:
(a) the actual reduction in risky behavior (mobile phone usage), and (b) the
reduction in the number of triggered video events as the driver learned to
“drive softer” (but may have continued the risky driving
behavior such as use of the mobile phone). Regular-threshold triggered events
were not used as an outcome measure in the current study, they were just used as
a constant pool of videos for driver coaching.
In addition to the regular-threshold triggered video events, the IVMS
vendor also captured constant-threshold triggered video events explicitly for
the purposes of this study and based on a specific request from the study
researchers. Triggering sensitivity levels for the constant-threshold triggered
video events were set to values more sensitive (meaning it was easier to trigger
and record videos) that what the IVMS vendor typically uses for commercial
clients (regular-threshold), and were then left unchanged for the duration of
the study (such as 0.236 g for hard braking for a medium duty truck). Unlike the
regular-threshold triggered video events, the constant-threshold triggered video
events were not immediately selected for offload (wirelessly transmitted from
the IVMS unit to the central database). Rather, a process was put in place to
randomly sample and select for offload one constant-threshold triggered video
events per vehicle per day. If a regular-threshold triggered video was selected
in the constant-threshold triggered sampling scheme (possible because the
constant-threshold triggering sensitivity level was lower than the
regular-threshold triggering sensitivity level), the vendor did not have to
review the video again. The remainder of the constant-threshold triggered video
events (after the one was sampled and downloaded) was not retained for use in
the study. Constant-threshold triggered video events (the one randomly selected
video event per vehicle per day) were the main unit of analysis used to evaluate
the interventions. The constant-threshold triggered video events allowed
researchers to evaluate the effectiveness of feedback from the technology and
avoid any potential bias, if it existed, due to the method that IVMS vendor
typically used to capture the regular-threshold triggered video events for
commercial clients. Additionally, the procedure of havinga triggering threshold
held constant for the entire duration of a study (as it was for the
constant-threshold video events), as opposed to the slightly variable triggering
threshold (as it was done for the capture of regular-threshold video events), is
more comparable to methods of other previously published work evaluating IVMS
technology (e.g., 
Hickman & Hanowski,
2011
; 
Lisk et al., 2013
; 
McGehee et al., 2007
).
The IVMS unit included a small box-like device to provide immediate
feedback to the driver with a series of lights that indicated when a risky
driving maneuver had been executed; the device was located inside the vehicle
cab near the windshield-mounted rearview mirror. The light remained green when
‘safe’ driving was occurring but flashed red or yellow to denote
potentially risky driving maneuvers, with the red light indicating more severe
risky driving behaviors. The thresholds between colors were determined by
algorithms set by the IVMS vendor. Triggered video events (both
regular-threshold and constant-threshold triggered videos) were reviewed by the
vendor's trained observers for approximately 60 individual risky driving
behaviors such as driving unbelted, smoking, hand-held device use while driving,
unsafe stopping, and speeding (see 
Table
1
 for a list of all possible coded risky driving behaviors used in
the study). An overall severity category from 0 to 4 was then calculated for
each video based on the sum of scores assigned to the individual risky driving
behaviors. A severity score of 0 indicated the video was reviewed and no risky
driving behaviors seen, with 1 through 4 denoting an increasing level of safety
concern. The methods of coding individual behaviors seen within a video, and
overall severity score assigned to the video, were held constant over the course
of the study, such that a video showing a driver unbelted for example would be
given the same severity score in all periods of the study. Collisions were not
given a severity score by the vendor due to liability concerns, and are not
included in this analysis.
2.2. Outcome measures
The main outcome measure determined a priori in the study protocol was
any constant-threshold triggered video that was vendor-scored as a severity
level of 3 or 4. These may be a single severe event seen by trained coders in
the video, such as aggressive driving, texting on hand-held phone, hands off the
wheel, or driving the wrong way, or multiple lesser risky behaviors (such as
driving unbelted and moderate speeding) seen together such that the total score
of the multiple lesser behaviors elevated it to severity 3 or 4 (hereafter
“overall risky driving”). The scoring methods for the behaviors
seen in each video were held constant over the course of the study. As learned
from earlier published research using IVMS data, many individual risky driving
behaviors may be too rare on their own to be used as an outcome measure, such as
single instances of running a red light, running a stop sign, driving on wrong
side of road, etc. as reported in the findings of 
McGehee et al. (2007)
. Therefore the total count of
overall risky driving video events was the key outcome of interest in this
study, as was similarly done for the earlier research of 
Hickman and Hanowski (2011)
. Driving unbelted as an
individual behavior was not considered by the IVMS vendor to be a severity 3 or
4 event, but was included as an outcome of interest in this study due to its
public health significance (e.g. 
Cameron,
Crandall, Olson, & Sklar, 2001
; 
Chen et al., 2015
; 
Evans, 1986
; 
Huang & Lai,
2011
; 
National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration, 1999
), as well as its use as an outcome in earlier
IVMS research (
Levick & Swanson,
2005
).
2.3. Feedback mechanisms
The IVMS vendor provided training to supervisors on all feedback
mechanisms in a train-the-trainer format to industry partners prior to the
installation of IVMS equipment. The goal of the training was to provide
supervisors of drivers with a complete overview of the IVMS system and to equip
supervisors with the necessary information to present and describe the IVMS
program to their drivers, as well as to access and view videos, and coach their
own drivers. The training also helped the supervisors address any
drivers' questions and concerns in order to familiarize drivers with the
program prior to implementation. The orientation also helped familiarize
supervisors with IVMS equipment.
This study evaluated two types of feedback from the IVMS to the driver:
Instant driver feedback (referred to as IDF-only) from the
feedback light on the IVMS unit inside the vehicle cab. A green
light indicated safe driving, and a flashing yellow or red light
informed the driver about risky driving behaviors. There were no
sounds associated with the lights. Drivers were trained by
supervisors on how to interpret the IDF feedback. Supervisors did
not receive any summary information about the IDF feedback that went
to the drivers.
IDF feedback to the driver coupled with one-on-one coaching
between supervisor and driver (referred to as Coaching +
IDF). Although the IVMS vendor provided training to supervisors on
how to perform the coaching process, the supervisors were the
entities that reviewed videos with drivers and performed coaching
sessions privately with drivers. The IVMS vendor's services
include an online “video response center” where the
supervisors could log in and view the individual videos, the listing
of risky behaviors detected (if any) by the IVMS vendor in the
videos, as well see the overall severity score assigned to each of
the videos by the IVMS vendor. This was part of the pre-study
training process for the industry partner. So as not to
unintentionally bias the study results, once the study began, the
supervisors agreed to not access the online video response center
and view videos from the non-coaching periods. However the
supervisors did have the ability to access videos from any time
period on request from the IVMS vendor if they deemed it necessary
to see an event. To follow the experimental guidelines of the study,
during the coaching feedback period, the industry partner
supervisors would log into the vendor's online video
response center, view videos, and actively coach drivers. Due to the
large number of videos recorded, the videos with a severity 3 or 4
were flagged in the online dashboard to make them easy to pick out
for review, however all videos were present in the online dashboard
available for viewing by the industry partner if desired. The
supervisors were to select severity 3 and 4 video events to review
with drivers, and were given the goal of conducting in-person
coaching sessions with any drivers that had Severity 3 and 4 video
events occurring that same week, for every week of the Coaching
+ IDF intervention period. Training was given on where and
how to conduct coaching sessions, such as in a private setting where
the conversation would not be overheard by co-workers. Goals of the
sessions included clearly defining the high risk behaviors observed,
reinforcing company policies and safe driving habits, rewarding safe
driving behaviors, and the suggestion to present the information in
a positive manner, akin to a coach “going over game films to
improve performance” with an athlete. When supervisors
completed a coaching session with a driver, they were to log a
record of the coaching session in the online video response center,
and had the option of writing a text narrative about what was
covered in the coaching session. An additional feature of the
Coaching + IDF period was bi-weekly conference calls held by
the IVMS vendor where supervisors were invited to call in and
discuss progress or concerns.
In addition to these two main types of feedback that went only to the
intervention groups, graphic feedback was given to all sites participating in
the study, both intervention and control. The graphic feedback was posted weekly
at each site and showed aggregated data on safe driving for all drivers at each
site (no individual drivers identified or specific behaviors mentioned). This
third form of feedback was used so that all drivers would be receiving at least
some meaningful information about their driving performance from the IVMS that
were installed on the vehicles. The group feedback came in the form of a
vendor-generated graph showing miles driven without a severity 3 or 4 event for
all drivers at the site, and if drivers were improving as a whole, the trend
line should go up as miles of safe driving increased. These weekly graphs were
distributed to supervisors by the IVMS vendor, and were presented to drivers via
display in common areas and at staff meetings to establish the general goal of
improving driving behavior with positive supervisor support.
2.4. Study population
This research study protocol was reviewed and approved by the National
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)'s Institutional
Review Board. NIOSH had no direct contact with drivers and did not obtain any
personally identifying information for this analysis. The study population came
from two companies from two industries, the “Support activities for oil
and gas operations” and “General freight trucking,
local” industrial classifications of the North American Industry
Classification System (NAICS) codes (NAICS codes 213,112 and 48,411,
respectively) (
Office of Management and Budget,
2007
). These two companies implemented IVMS technology in a subset of
their fleets as a pilot effort. The employees were technicians driving pick-up
trucks to oil and gas operations where they would perform maintenance and
support activities, and drivers of refrigerated box trucks in the
26,000–33,000 lb range doing short-haul deliveries of goods to
convenience stores. The industry partners selected a total of 20 sites (7 from
truck transportation and 13 from oil and gas) located in 12 states (CA, CO, LA,
MA, MD, NJ, OK, PA, TX, UT, VA, WA) within the United States. All vehicles at
each of 20 sites had IVMS installed so that all drivers at each site would have
the same equipment and working conditions. The 20 sites were apportioned into
intervention and control groups (described in more detail in Section 2.5 Study
Design). The study population was a dynamic cohort where the amount of
person-time contributing to the study could vary for each individual depending
on how long they were employed at the site. Data from any employee at the sites
operating a vehicle equipped with IVMS during the course of the study were
included (i.e., if an employee terminated employment during the course of the
study, a newly hired employee could use the same vehicle equipped with IVMS).
All participants in the study were anonymous, and any data analyzed at the
driver level (i.e., coaching data) identified drivers by only a unique anonymous
number created by the IVMS vendor. No demographic data (such as gender, age, or
race) were available for the study population, however it is likely that most of
the drivers in this study were male as gender distribution data from the truck
transportation and oil and gas industries show that the majority of workers in
these two industries are male (
Bureau of Labor
Statistics, 2015
; 
Chen, Fang, Guo,
& Hanowski, 2016
; 
Sieber et
al., 2014
).
In the oil and gas industry partner, drivers could use the vehicles for
both work and personal purposes, and it was not possible to differentiate
between events logged during work or personal use time in this study because
data were not available for workers' daily on and off work hours.
Workers' family members were not permitted to drive the vehicles unless
it was an emergency situation. Generally one driver was assigned to one vehicle
during the course of the study. In the truck transportation industry partner,
multiple drivers at the site could drive a vehicle within the same 24-h period,
due to shift changes. For both industry partners, in general, both vehicles and
drivers remained at the same site throughout the course of the study.
2.5. Study design
The study was conducted from April 2012 through July 2014 and entailed a
3-group, 4–period cross-over design for each company (
Fig. 1
). Groups 1 and 2 were intervention groups, and
Group 3 was a control group. Video events were triggered and reviewed in all 3
groups during all 4 periods of the study. In period 1, no groups received any
IDF-only or Coaching + IDF feedback, and period 1 was considered the
baseline period. In period 2, Group 1 received IDF-only feedback, Group 2
received Coaching + IDF feedback, and Group 3 received no feedback. In
period 3, Group 1 received Coaching + IDF feedback, Group 2 received
IDF-only feedback, and Group 3, the control group, received no feedback. In
period 4, all 3 groups entered an end-baseline period identical to the initial
baseline period. The graphic feedback chart data was given to Groups 1, 2 and 3
during all 4 periods of the study, including the beginning and end baseline
periods. Supervisors had online access to the triggered video events only for
Group 1 and 2, and only during the Coaching + IDF intervention
periods.
Fig. 1.
Open in a new tab
Timeline and study design, showing three groups (Intervention Group 1,
Intervention Group 2, Control Group 3) and 4 study periods replicated in 2
industries.
In the truck transportation company, non-random methods were used to
assign the 7 sites to the 3 groups (3 sites in Group 1, 2 sites in Group 2, 2
sites in Group 3). In the oil and gas support operations company, the 13 sites
were randomized to the 3 groups (5 sites to Group 1, 5 sites to Group 2, 3 sites
to Group 3). Because of the mix of methods used to assign sites to groups in the
two companies, the overall study design was considered to be quasi-experimental
(
Harris et al., 2004
; 
Rothman & Greenland, 1998
). All trucks at
each of the 20 study sites were equipped with IVMS; a total of 315 IVMS were
installed at the start of the study. There were a total of 163 IVMS-equipped
trucks in the oil and gas operations company (64 in Group 1, 35 in Group 2, and
64 in Group 3) and 152 IVMS-equipped trucks in the truck transportation company
(53 in Group 1, 50 in Group 2, and 49 in Group 3). Collection and review of
regular-threshold video events began immediately after vehicles were equipped
with IVMS, but drivers drove the vehicles performing regular work duties for at
least 10 weeks before collection and review of constant video events began.
2.6. Statistical analysis
Logistic regression was the statistical method used in this study for
analyzing dichotomous response data. Each individual constant-threshold video
was a unit of analysis. A response of one indicated that the behavior of
interest occurred within the constant-threshold video event, and a response of
zero indicated that the behavior of interest did not occur within the
constant-threshold video event, with factors suspected to affect the response
incorporated into the model for analysis of relationships (
Hosmer & Lemeshow, 2000
; 
Walker, 1997
). In this study, logistic regression was
used to model the probability of risky driving behavior (a dichotomous outcome:
risky driving behavior present, or risky driving behavior absent) in constant
video events and to test for significant differences in the probability of risky
driving behavior between all groups of interest; a generalized estimating
equation (GEE) approach was used to account for repeated measurements on the
same vehicles over time (
Stokes, Davis,
& Koch, 1995
). The analysis was performed using the GENMOD
procedure in SAS v. 9.3 (
SAS Institute Inc.,
2011
). The prediction variables were group (3 levels), period (4
levels), and the interaction between group and period (12 levels), and contrasts
were constructed using parameter estimates from the model to test specific
hypotheses of interest. Data from intervention Groups 1 and 2 were combined to
test some of the hypotheses of interest, and are hereafter referred to as the
“intervention” group, while Group 3 remains the
“control” group. The following were the five questions of
interest to be addressed (repeated for both outcome measures, overall risky
driving behaviors, and driving unbelted, so 10 overall) in the contrast estimate
analysis: 
Was there a significant difference in the decline of the
probability of risky driving behavior from baseline between the
intervention group's (Group 1 and Group 2 combined) Coaching
+ IDF period and the control group (Group 3)?
Was there a significant difference in the decline of the
probability of risky driving behavior from baseline between IDF-only
in its “pure” form (from Group 1 where IDF-only
feedback came first and as not influenced by preceding Coaching
+ IDF feedback) and the control group (Group 3)?
Was there a significant difference in the decline of the
probability of risky driving behavior from baseline between
intervention group's IDF-only feedback period (Group 1 only)
and intervention group's (Group 1 and Group 2 combined)
Coaching + IDF period? That is, do the two treatment
IDF-only and Coaching + IDF give rise to the same decline in
probability of risky driving behaviors?
Was there a significant difference in the decline of the
probability of risky driving behavior from baseline between the
intervention group (Group 1 and Group 2) during the treatment
periods, where Group 1 had IDF-only followed by Coaching +
IDF feedback, and Group 2 had Coaching + IDF followed by
IDF-only feedback? That is, did the treatment order have a
significant effect on the decline in probability of risky driving
behavior?
Was there a significant difference in the decline of the
probability of risky driving behavior from baseline to the end
baseline period between the intervention group (Group 1 and Group 2
combined) and control group (Group 3)?
Data from both companies were used in aggregate in the analysis because
comparing the companies to one another was not an objective of the study, and
adding a company variable to the model resulted in only a small decrease in
quasi-likelihood under the independence model criterion (
Pan, 2001
). Due to the multiple hypotheses to be
tested (n = 10), contrasts were determined to be significant when p
< 0.05, after performing Holm's Bonferroni correction (
Aicken & Gensler, 1996
).
3. Results
3.1. Constant-threshold triggered video events
During the study period, there were a total of 73,099 constant-threshold
triggered video events randomly sampled and downloaded for review and inclusion
in the study from all 625 drivers in the study (as identified by unique
anonymous driver identification numbers). Of those constant-threshold triggered
video events (hereafter just “video events”), 1670 (2%
of the total) had missing values and could not be used, and an additional 11,711
video events (16% of the total) had an obstructed camera view, either
partially or fully obstructing the view of the driver and/or the external camera
view. Because the obstructed-view video events could not be coded properly, they
were omitted from the analysis, leaving 59,718 (82% of the total) fully
visible video events which were used in this analysis. Of the fully visible
video events, 55% did not show any risky driving behaviors and the
remaining 45% showed some level of driving behavior of safety concern
(anything with severity 1 and above).
3.2. Frequency of risky driving behaviors
For the entire study period, frequency counts were done for risky
driving behaviors coded Severity 1–4 in triggered video events (
Table 2
). More than one driving behavior
could be coded from each video event (e.g., a driver could be driving unbelted,
and eating while driving). Of the 34,899 coded behaviors, driving unbelted was
the most commonly seen risky driving behavior, coded 14,185 times, or
40.6% of total video events. This was followed by distractions at
31.9% of total video events, and then by unsafe stopping, speeding, and
hand-held mobile device use. Within the subset of all triggered video events
that were coded as more severe (severity 3 or 4) by the IVMS vendor (
Table 3
), the top five most common
behaviors were the same as in the overall video events; however, the rank order
differed within the top five.
Table 2.
Frequency count of risky driving behaviors coded from constant-threshold
triggered video events for Intervention Groups 1 and 2 and Control Group 3
combined for the entire study period (multiple behaviors could be coded from a
single video event).
Category
Total event count
Percent
Driving unbelted
14,185
40.6
Driver
seatbelt unfastened (≤20 mph), driver seatbelt unfastened
(>20 mph), passenger seatbelt unfastened
Distractions (smoking, eating, etc.)
11,116
31.9
Smoking,
beverage, food, reading paperwork, other task, passenger(s),
grooming/personal hygiene, mobile phone – talking (hands
free)
Unsafe stopping
2814
8.1
Failure to
attempt to stop at stop sign, incomplete stop at stop sign, failure
to attempt to stop at light, incomplete stop at light, false
start
Speeding
2494
7.1
Exceeding
maximum fleet speed, moderate speeding (≤10 mph over limit),
excessive speeding (>10 mph over limit)
Mobile use handheld
2136
6.1
Mobile phone
– talking (handheld), operating other mobile device, mobile
phone – texting/dialing
Fatigue
1625
4.7
Yawning,
drowsy/falling asleep
Unprofessional driving
226
0.6
Rude gesture,
unsafe backing, unsafe turning, unsafe braking, driving the wrong
way – off roadway, unsafe lane change/merging/passing, curb
check/jumped curb, raised voice, unsafe railroad crossing, lane
departure/straddling lanes, competitive/aggressive
driving
Situational awareness
53
0.2
Not scanning
road ahead, not checking mirrors, unsafe following (≤1 s),
unsafe following (1.25–2 s), unsafe following
(2.25–3 s)
Other events
250
0.7
Driving with
two hands off wheel, captured roadway incident
Total
34,899
100
Open in a new tab
Table 3.
Frequency count of risky driving behaviors coded from constant-threshold
triggered video events for Intervention Groups 1 and 2 and Control Group 3
combined for the entire study period, where severity score was 3 or 4 only
(multiple behaviors could be coded from a single video event).
Category
Total event count
Percent
Unsafe stopping
2814
36.0
Failure to
attempt to stop at stop sign, incomplete stop at stop sign, failure
to attempt to stop at light, incomplete stop at light, false
start
Driving unbelted
1542
19.7
Driver
seatbelt unfastened (≤20 mph), driver seatbelt unfastened
(>20 mph), passenger seatbelt unfastened
Distractions (smoking, eating, etc.)
1093
14.0
Smoking,
beverage, food, reading paperwork, other task, passenger(s),
grooming/personal hygiene, mobile phone – talking (hands
free)
Mobile use handheld
1053
13.5
Mobile phone
– talking (handheld), operating other mobile device, mobile
phone - texting/dialing
Speeding
681
8.7
Exceeding
maximum fleet speed, moderate speeding (≤10 mph over limit),
excessive speeding (>10 mph over limit)
Unprofessional driving
177
2.3
Rude gesture,
unsafe backing, unsafe turning, unsafe braking, driving the wrong
way - off roadway, unsafe lane change/merging/passing, curb
check/jumped curb, raised voice, unsafe railroad crossing, lane
departure/straddling lanes, competitive/aggressive
driving
Fatigue
164
2.1
Yawning,
drowsy/falling asleep
Situational awareness
47
0.6
Not scanning
road ahead, not checking mirrors, unsafe following (≤1 s),
unsafe following (1.25–2 s), unsafe following
(2.25–3 s)
Other events
249
3.2
Driving with
two hands off wheel, captured roadway incident
Total
7820
100
Open in a new tab
3.3. Coaching
During the Coaching + IDF feedback period, supervisors had the
goal of meeting with every driver that had severity 3 or 4 driving video events
during that week for a coaching session. From these data, an ever-coached metric
was calculated, meaning any driver that had at least one severity 3 or 4
regular-threshold video event at any time during the coaching intervention
period was coached at least once during that period. Of the 324 drivers who
drove during Coaching + IDF feedback period, 292 drivers triggered at
least one severity 3 or 4 regular-threshold video event during that time. Of
those, 258 (88%) had a coaching session logged by their supervisor in
the vendor's online video response center. Of the 13 intervention sites
that received Coaching + IDF intervention, 6 sites showed 100%
of their drivers being coached during coaching sessions, 5 sites showed
90–99% of drivers coached, 3 sites showed 80–88%
of drivers coached, and 1 site showed only 52% of drivers coached.
3.4. Overall risky driving behavior
The five questions of interest outlined in the statistical analysis
section (Section 2.5) were examined using overall risky driving (severity 3 or 4
video events) as an outcome measure. Data were combined as shown in 
Table 4
 and 
Fig. 2
 to test these questions of interest.
Table 4.
Count and proportion of constant-threshold triggered video events showing risky
driving behavior (severity 3 or 4 score), and driving unbelted, by combined
Intervention group (Intervention Groups 1 and 2 combined by intervention period)
and period, groupings for statistical contrast estimates.
Treatment Group
Count of video events with risky driving
behaviors (severity 3 or 4) present / absent
Count of video events with driving
unbelted
a
 present /
absent
Total count of video events
b
Proportion of video events with risky driving
behaviors (severity 3 or 4)
c
Proportion of video events with driving
unbelted
c
Intervention Groups 1 &
2
Present/Absent
Present/Absent
 1 Baseline (Groups 1 &
2)
628 / 5353
1276 / 4705
5981
0.105
0.213
 2 IDF-Only before coaching (Group
1)
677 / 8301
1744 / 7234
8978
0.075
0.194
 3 IDF-only after coaching (Group
2)
501 / 6938
1858 / 5581
7439
0.067
0.250
 4 Coaching + IDF (Group
1&2)
1024 / 16,035
2420 / 14,639
17,059
0.060
0.142
 5 End Base (Group
1&2)
305 / 6111
957 / 5459
6416
0.048
0.149
Control Group 3
 1 Baseline
292 / 2029
725 / 1596
2321
0.126
0.312
 2 Period 2&3
1006 / 9231
4106 / 6131
10,237
0.098
0.401
 3 End Base
137 / 1150
326 / 961
1287
0.106
0.253
Open in a new tab
a
Driving unbelted was not considered by the vendor to be a severity 3 or 4
event.
b
This column represents the total count of constant-threshold triggered video
events triggered and reviewed for the study (one per vehicle per day). Some
video events show risky driving behaviors while other video events show no
risky behaviors. Regardless of content all videos are counted in this
total.
c
Proportion of events is calculated by dividing count of video events with
risky driving behavior present by total count of video events.
Fig. 2.
Open in a new tab
Proportion of constant-threshold triggered video events showing risky driving
behaviors (severity 3 or 4) for the Intervention Group (Intervention Group 1 and
Intervention Group 2, combined) and Control Group 3, and period, groupings for
statistical contrast estimates. The IDF-only period includes data from
Intervention Group 1 only, where IDF-only feedback
The first question of interest was to determine if there was a
significant difference in the decline of the probability of risky driving
behavior from baseline between the intervention group's (Group 1 and
Group 2 combined) Coaching + IDF period and the control group (Group 3).
While the control group's odds of risky driving behaviors declined from
baseline to the treatment periods, the intervention group had a significantly
greater reduction in odds of risky driving behaviors during Coaching +
IDF feedback periods in comparison to the control group (ORadj = 0.52
95% CI 0.33–0.82; Holm-adjusted p = 0.032).
The second question of interest was whether there was a significant
difference in the decline of the probability of risky driving behavior from
baseline between IDF-only in its “pure” form (from Group 1 where
IDF-only feedback came first and was not influenced by preceding Coaching
+ IDF feedback) and the control group (Group 3). The findings showed
that IDF-only in its “pure” form did not show a significantly
greater reduction in odds of risky driving from baseline than the control group
(ORadj = 0.86, 95% CI 0.51–1.43; Holm-adjusted p
> 0.05).
The third question was whether there a significant difference in the
decline of the probability of risky driving behavior from baseline between
intervention group's IDF-only feedback period (Group 1 only) and
intervention group's (Group 1 and Group 2 combined) Coaching +
IDF period. In comparison to IDF-only feedback, Coaching + IDF showed a
significantly larger reduction in odds of risky driving from baseline (ORadj
=0.61 95% CI 0.43–0.86; Holm-adjusted p =
0.035).
The fourth question was whether there was a significant difference in
the decline of the probability of risky driving behavior from baseline between
intervention Group 1 and Group 2 during the treatment periods, where Group 1 had
IDF-only followed by Coaching + IDF feedback, and Group 2 had Coaching
+ IDF followed by IDF-only feedback. To examine the temporal effect of
order of presentation of IDF-only feedback, Group 2's average (Coaching
+ IDF and IDF-only) departure from baseline for periods 2 and 3 was
compared to Group 1's average (IDF-only and Coaching + IDF)
departure from baseline for periods 2 and 3. It was found that the two were not
significantly different from one another (ORadj =1.10, 95% CI
0.66–1.86; Holm-adjusted p > 0.05).
The fifth question was to see if there was a significant difference in
the decline of the probability of risky driving behavior from baseline to the
end baseline period between the intervention group (Group 1 and Group 2
combined) and control group (Group 3). To examine the sustained effect of prior
exposure to Coaching + IDF feedback, the combined intervention
group's end baseline decline compared to their beginning baseline was
compared to the control group's end decline compared to its beginning
baseline. A significant difference between the intervention and control groups
was found (ORadj =0.27, 95% CI 0.12–0.60; Holm-adjusted
p = 0.012).
3.5. Driving unbelted
The IVMS vendor did not consider driving unbelted to be a severity 3 or
4 event, so while driving unbelted was a component of approximately 20%
of the severity 3 or 4 video events (
Table
3
), it was the most commonly seen risky driving behavior of any
severity level at 41% (
Table 2
).
The five questions of interest outlined in the statistical analysis section
(Section 2.5) were also examined using driving unbelted as an outcome. Data were
combined as shown in 
Table 4
 and 
Fig. 3
 to test specific questions of
interest.
Fig. 3.
Open in a new tab
Proportion of constant-threshold triggered video events showing driving unbelted
for the Intervention Group (Intervention Group 1 and Intervention Group 2,
combined) and Control Group 3, and period, groupings for statistical contrast
estimates. The IDF-only period includes data from Intervention Group 1 only,
where IDF-only feedback was presented as the first type of feedback.
The first question of interest was to determine if there was a
significant difference in the decline of the probability of risky driving
behavior from baseline between the intervention group's (Group 1 and
Group 2 combined) Coaching + IDF period and the control group (Group 3).
The intervention group had a significant reduction in odds of driving unbelted
during Coaching + IDF feedback periods in comparison to the control
group, which showed an increase (ORadj = 0.18 95% CI
0.08–0.41; Holm-adjusted p < 0.001).
The second question of interest was whether there was a significant
difference in the decline of the probability of driving unbelted from baseline
between IDF-only in its “pure” form (from Group 1 where IDF-only
feedback came first and was not influenced by preceding Coaching + IDF
feedback) and the control group (Group 3). IDF-only in its
“pure” form did not show a reduction in odds of driving unbelted
from baseline in comparison to the control group (ORadj = 0.66
95% CI 0.30–1.45; Holm-adjusted p > 0.05).
The third question was whether there a significant difference in the
decline of the probability of driving unbelted from baseline between
intervention group's IDF-only feedback period (Group 1 only) and
intervention group's (Group 1 and Group 2) Coaching + IDF
period. In comparison to “pure” IDF-only feedback, Coaching
+ IDF showed a significantly larger reduction in odds of driving
unbelted from baseline than the IDF-only group (ORadj = 0.27 95%
CI 0.15–0.48; Holm-adjusted p = 0.035).
The fourth question was whether there was a significant difference in
the decline of the probability of driving unbelted from baseline between
intervention Group 1 and Group 2 during the treatment periods, where Group 1 had
IDF-only followed by Coaching + IDF feedback, and Group 2 had Coaching
+ IDF followed by IDF-only feedback. To examine the temporal effect of
order of presentation of IDF-only feedback, Group 2's average (Coaching
+ IDF and IDF-only) departure from baseline for periods 2 and 3 was
compared to the Group 1's average departure from baseline for periods 2
and 3 (IDF-only and Coaching+IDF). It was found that the two were not
significantly different from one another (ORadj = 1.24, 95% CI
0.53–2.89; Holm-adjusted p N 0.05).
The fifth question was to see if there was a significant difference in
the decline of the probability of driving unbelted from baseline to the end
baseline period between the intervention group and control group. To examine the
sustained effect of prior exposure to Coaching + IDF feedback, the
intervention group's end baseline decline compared to its beginning
baseline was compared to the control group's end decline compared to its
beginning baseline. No significant difference in the odds of driving unbelted
was found between the intervention and control group in this comparison (ORadj
= 0.57, 95% CI 0.16–2.00; Holm-adjusted p >
0.05).
4. Discussion
On-the-job feedback, reinforcement of new training, and knowledge of
consequences for non-conformance are considered to be critical parts in the jump
from knowledge to behavior change (
Quintana,
1999
). For workers who perform many of their tasks (including
work-related driving) in isolation, on-the-job feedback may be particularly
difficult for supervisors to provide (
Hickman
& Geller, 2003
; 
Olson &
Austin, 2001
; 
Smith & Jones,
2016
). Because of this, IVMS are increasingly being used by fleet owners
to gather data on employees' driving patterns and behaviors. The main
rationale for IVMS is to provide objective information that will allow supervisors
to coach drivers to adopt safer driving practices. The results from this
occupational driving study demonstrate evidence for the effectiveness of feedback
(both IDF feedback and supervisory coaching) from IVMS to reduce risky driving
behaviors in a population of truck drivers representing two industries. Despite the
fact that the control group showed a decline in overall risky driving behaviors
during the treatment periods of the study, the odds of risky driving behaviors
declined to a significantly greater extent in the intervention group during the
Coaching + IDF period. The odds of driving unbelted also declined to a
significantly greater extent in the Coaching + IDF period in comparison to
the control group. The IDF-only feedback period, representing IDF in its
“pure” form where it was the first type of feedback given to
drivers, did not show a significant reduction in odds from baseline in the
intervention group as compared to the control group for overall risky driving or
driving unbelted. It is possible that if only vehicle maneuver-related behaviors
were examined as an outcome, IDF-only feedback may show more effectiveness, and this
is a research question that could be examined in future research.
A secondary objective was to examine temporal effects of order of
presentation of IDF-only feedback. It was hypothesized that IDF-only feedback may be
more effective after drivers had already received one-on-one coaching with
supervisors, during which they saw videos of themselves while driving, as opposed to
when IDF-only feedback was presented first, before drivers had ever seen videos of
their driving. Evidence for temporal effects was mixed. A visual inspection of the
proportion of overall risky driving behaviors by group and period implied a greater
decline in IDF-only rates when presented after coaching rather than before, however,
there was no statistically significant difference in the magnitude of change between
the two groups and their baseline.
Driving unbelted, distractions (such as smoking, eating, drinking a
beverage, and handheld mobile device use), unsafe stopping, and speeding were the
most common risky driving behaviors seen in this study. Two of these driving
behaviors that are of particular interest in the published safety literature are
driving without a seatbelt and hand-held device use while driving. The companies
participating in the study had policies prohibiting both these behaviors at the
start of the study. These policies are supported by the body of literature showing a
link between hand-held device-use, decline in driving performance, and an increased
risk of collisions (
Fitch et al., 2013
; 
Leung, Croft, Jackson, Howard, & Mckenzie,
2012
; 
McKeever, Schultheis, Padmanaban,
& Blasco, 2013
; 
Wilson &
Stimpson, 2010
). In addition, the effectiveness of seat belts in
increasing crash survivability and reducing injury severity is well-documented, as
is the public health importance of seat belt use (e.g. 
Cameron et al., 2001
; 
Chen et al., 2015
; 
Evans, 1986
;
Huang & Lai, 2011
; 
NHTSA, 1999
). In the current study, hand-held
device use was categorized in the severity 3 and 4 group by the vendor and included
with the overall risky driving behavior measure. Because driving unbelted in the
absence of other risky driving behaviors was not considered to be a severe driving
behavior (less than severity 3), it was examined in this study as a separate
outcome. Prior research has shown that primary seat belt laws (where violators can
be stopped and cited independently of any other traffic behavior) can impact
belt-wearing of drivers in both occupational and general driving in states that have
such laws (
Beck & West, 2010
; 
Boal, Li, & Rodriguez-Acosta, 2016
;
Lee et al., 2015
; 
Shults, Haegerich, Bhat, & Zhang, 2016
). In this
study, both the intervention group and the control group involved sites in states
both with and without a primary belt law, as defined by 
CDC (2015)
. The intervention group comprised sites from 5
states with and 4 states without primary belt laws, and the control group comprised
sites from 3 states with and 2 states without primary belt laws. None of the states
in this study experienced a change in their primary belt law status during the
course of this study (
CDC, 2015
), and each
group (intervention and control) was compared to its own baseline in the analysis,
so the primary belt law status of study sites' states should not impact the
evaluation of the effectiveness of feedback. Furthermore, both industry partners had
as part of their policies that belt use was required by drivers in their companies
regardless of site location.
The 
Hickman and Hanowski (2011)
 study
of truck drivers reported decreases in safety-critical events (using methods that
collected all events over a set triggering threshold) during a 13-week feedback
period but reported no information as to whether safety-critical events were
maintained at rates comparable to those during the intervention period or if risky
driving increased with the removal of the intervention (post 13 week period). In the
current study, after feedback was withdrawn from the intervention group, the
reduction in odds of overall risky driving was maintained, and remained
significantly different from the control group. However, this greater decline in the
intervention group compared to the control group was not maintained for driving
unbelted. Because there was a reduction in risky driving after feedback was
withdrawn, this prompts questions about the variables that influence the maintenance
of safe driving behavior (i.e., how long can reductions in risky driving behaviors
be sustained after feedback is reduced or withdrawn). Previous studies have found
that feedback combined with rewards or incentives provide greater behavior change
than feedback without rewards or incentives (
Alvero,
Bucklin, & Austin, 2001
; 
Cooper,
2009
; 
Kang, Oah, & Dickinson,
2003
). However, it was not known to researchers what consequences
(positive or negative) there may have been for safe or unsafe driving practices in
this study. Because the greater decline in the intervention group compared to the
control group was not maintained for the outcome of driving unbelted, further
research into this facet is warranted.
Prior research has found that supervisors play an important role in
providing performance feedback to drivers and improving safety outcomes in the
work-related driving context (
Newnam, Lewis,
& Watson, 2012
) and safety-oriented interactions between
supervisors and employees to be associated with positive safety outcomes (
Zohar, 2002
). In the current study,
supervisors' compliance with the coaching component varied among the sites
in the study from 52% to 100% for those drivers who should have been
coached at least once during the entire coaching period. Overall, 94% of
sites in the intervention groups achieved 80% or better coaching of
employees. Future research may want to explore interventions that could increase the
reliability of supervisors' coaching of drivers. For example, by reducing
the effort and time that is required to conduct a coaching session, supervisors may
conduct coaching sessions at a higher rate and in a timelier manner (e.g., 
Sigurdsson, Taylor, & Wirth, 2013
).
Future research could also investigate the relationship between measures of risky
driving behavior and higher or lower coaching rates.
In interpreting the findings of this research, there are four limitations
that should be considered and will be discussed: misalignment of driver-facing and
exterior-facing camera resulting in obstructed camera views, the collection of data
at the vehicle unit as opposed to the driver unit, the limited information available
on the content of the confidential supervisor-driver coaching sessions, and the lack
of a true baseline data collection period unaffected by IVMS feedback. The first
limitation, misalignment of the video camera, where either the external or
driver-facing video camera was obstructed or misaligned, was a challenge, as it
caused some video recordings to be unusable in the study. It was necessary for the
video coders to evaluate variables from visual detection such as seatbelt use or
handheld device use by the driver, or from the external cameras, roads signs,
lights, and other vehicles. Of the total events, 16% had an obstructed
camera view and were omitted from the analysis. It is possible that omission of
these video events may have biased the findings to some degree, and this is an area
that could be further investigated in future research.
A second limitation was that it was not always possible to reliably link
individual drivers to vehicles within a site. Video event data were recorded on a
per-vehicle per-day time unit, and some of the vehicles had multiple drivers for
vehicle in a 24-h period due to shift changes. Additionally, driver schedules were
not always uploaded from the industry partners to the IVMS vendor, so it was not
always possible to tell within each site which drivers were driving which vehicles.
Because the study involved a dynamic cohort, if a driver left the company during the
course of the study, a newly hired driver could take the place of the old driver,
using the vehicle equipped with IVMS. Due to these limitations, conclusions can be
made about changes in risky driving behavior at the group level, but not at the
individual driver level.
A third limitation was the lack of data on the quality, content, and tone of
discussions during coaching sessions. Although supervisors were trained on how and
on what to coach by the IVMS vendor, it is quite possible that discussions during
the coaching session varied from supervisor to supervisor. Because the coaching
sessions were private, there is no way to know for sure exact details of how
coaching was performed or what topics were covered. Despite the fact that coaching
levels did not consistently reach 100% of drivers who had logged severity 3
and 4 events, significant declines in risky driving behaviors were seen.
And finally, the baseline period in this study does not represent a true
state of “no feedback.” At the outset of the study it was determined
that all drivers in the study should be given some feedback from the IVMS installed
in their vehicle, even if it was not driver-specific. Group feedback was given to
both intervention and control groups during all periods in the study, including
beginning and end baseline periods. In theory this should bias the findings of the
study toward the null of no treatment effect. Despite the group feedback given,
there were significant differences detected. Without the group feedback provided in
the beginning baseline period, it is possible that greater effect sizes may have
been observed with the intervention group between baseline and intervention
periods.
5. Practical applications
Future research should address the impact of IVMS feedback on outcomes such
as crash-related auto liability and workers' compensation injury claims over
longer periods of time. Additionally, return on investment analyses should be done
as there has been only limited research published in this area (
Boodlad & Chiang, 2014
; 
Pitera, Boyle, & Goodchild, 2013
), and IVMS is
considered to be a fairly low-cost intervention in comparison to other safety
technologies (
Hickman & Hanowski,
2010
). Given that motor vehicle crashes are consistently the leading
cause of work-related death, in addition to affecting the general population, this
research has addressed a significant public health problem. Despite limitations,
results from this current research provide evidence that the intervention of
supervisor coaching of drivers combined with feedback from warning lights feedback
successfully reduced risky driving behaviors that are policy priorities for
employers.
Jennifer L. Bell
 is a Research Epidemiologist with the US
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health, Division of Safety Research, in Morgantown, WV. She
received her BS degree from Ursinus College near Philadelphia, PA and her MS and PhD
from West Virginia University in Morgantown, WV. Dr. Bell's current projects
include evaluating the effectiveness of in-vehicle monitoring systems and evaluating
the effectiveness of slip, trip, and fall prevention measures in a variety of
industries, in addition to collaborating on a study analyzing company fleet safety
data to guide research and prevention of motor vehicle collisions.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to acknowledge Dr. Harlan Amandus, Dr. Elyce Biddle, and Dr.
Oliver Wirth for their work on the project, including the development of the
original study protocol and design, and Mr. Dave Hilling for early programming
support. The authors would also like to thank Dr. Stephanie Pratt, Dr. James
Collins, Dr. Tomer Toledo, Dr. Robin Gillespie, and Dr. Christine Schuler for their
critical review of earlier drafts of this paper. The findings and conclusions in
this report are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily represent the views of
the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. In addition, citations to
websites external to NIOSH do not constitute NIOSH endorsement of the sponsoring
organizations or their programs or products. Furthermore, NIOSH is not responsible
for the content of these websites. All web addresses referenced in this document
were accessible as of the publication date. This project was made possible through a
partnership with the CDC Foundation.
Biographies
Matthew A Taylor
 recently became Patient Safety Fellow in the Center for
Medical Product End-user Testing at the Veterans Affairs Pittsburgh Healthcare
System. Prior to this position, he was a Service Fellow in the Health Effects
Laboratory Division of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. He
received a Ph.D. in Behavior Analysis from Queens College and the Graduate Center,
CUNY. His research interests include issues related to behavioral safety, human
factors, behavioral economics, education, and patient safety.
Guang X Chen
, MD, is an epidemiologist in the Analysis and Field
Evaluation Branch, Division of Safety Research, National Institute for Occupational
Safety and Health (NIOSH), Morgantown, West Virginia. He has 33 years of work
experience in occupational safety and health research and prevention; 12 years in
Central South University (previous named Hunan Medical University), Changsha, Hunan
China and 21 years in NIOSH, United States. During the past 15 years, his research
has focused on truck driver safety and occupational motor vehicle roadway safety. He
has served as the project officer or among the key project personnel for several
National Occupational Research Agenda (NORA) projects concerning truck driver safety
and health.
Rachel Kirk
 is a statistical programmer who performed work under
contract through NIOSH's Division of Safety Research with JAB Innovative
Solutions LLC. Mrs. Kirk attended college at West Virginia University where she
served as a Graduate Teaching Assistant for the Department of Statistics. Mrs. Kirk
received a B.S. in Mathematics from West Virginia Wesleyan College and a M.S. in
Statistics from West Virginia University. She currently lives in Raleigh North
Carolina.
Erin R. Leatherman
 is an assistant professor in the Department of
Statistics at West Virginia University. She holds a master's degree in
applied statistics from Bowling Green State University and a PhD in statistics from
The Ohio State University.
References
Aicken M, Gensler H. Adjusting for multiple testing when reporting research results:
the Bonferroni vs Holm methods. American Journal of Public Health. 1996;86:726–728. doi: 10.2105/ajph.86.5.726.
 [
DOI
] [
PMC free article
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Alvero AM, Bucklin BR, Austin J. An objective review of the effectiveness and essential
characteristics of performance feedback in organizational settings
(1985-1998) Journal of Organizational Behavior Management. 2001;21:3–29.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Beck LF, West BA. Vital signs: Nonfatal, motor vehicle-occupant injuries (2009) and
seat belt use (2008) among adults - United States. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. 2010;59(51):1681–1686.
 [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Boal WL, Li J, Rodriguez-Acosta RL. Seat belt use among adult workers — 21 states,
2013. MMWR Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. 2016;65:593–597. doi: 10.15585/mmwr.mm6523a1.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Boodlad L, Chiang KH.  Technical report no FMCSA-13-020. U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration; 2014. Study of the impact of a telematics system on safe and
fuel-efficient driving in trucks; p. 54.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational injury and illness classification manual, v. 2.01. U.S Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics; 2012. Jan, 
 [
Google Scholar
]
Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Current population survey microdata, 2015. US Department of Labor; 2015.  [Accessed September 28, 2016].   
http://thedataweb.rm.census.gov/ftp/cps_ftp.html
.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Bureau of Labor Statistics. Table A-6 Fatal occupational injuries resulting from transportation
incidents and homicides by occupation, all US (2014) Washington, DC: 2016.  Retrieved from  
http://www.bls.gov/iif/oshwc/cfoi/cftb0291.pdf
.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Cameron S, Crandall CS, Olson LM, Sklar DP. Mortality reduction with air bag and seat belt use in head-on
passenger car collisions. American Journal of Epidemiology. 2001;153:219–224. doi: 10.1093/aje/153.3.219.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Carney C, McGehee DV, Lee JD, Reyes ML, Raby M. Using an event-triggered video intervention system to expand the
supervised learning of newly licensed adolescent drivers. American Journal of Public Health. 2010;100:1101–1106. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.165829.
 [
DOI
] [
PMC free article
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Primary enforcement of seat belt laws. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for
Injury Prevention and Control, Division of Unintentional Injury
Prevention; 2015.  Retrieved from  
http://www.cdc.gov/motorvehiclesafety/calculator/factsheet/seatbelt.html
.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Chen GX, Collins JW, Sieber WK, Pratt SG, Rodríguez-Acosta RL, Lincoln JE, … Robinson CF. Vital signs: Seat belt use among long-haul truck drivers
— United States, 2010. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. 2015;64:217–221.
 [
PMC free article
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Chen GX, Fang YJ, Guo F, Hanowski RJ. The influence of daily sleep patterns of commercial truck drivers
on driving performance. Accident Analysis and Prevention. 2016;91:55–63. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2016.02.027.
 [
DOI
] [
PMC free article
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Chen G, Jenkins E, Husting E. A comparison of crash patterns in heavy trucks with and without
collision warning system technology. SAE Technical Paper. 2004;2004
 [
Google Scholar
]
Cooper MD. Behavioral safety interventions: A review of process design
factors. Professional Safety. 2009 Feb;:36–45.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Donmez B, Boyle LN, Lee JD. Safety implications of providing real-time feedback to distracted
drivers. Accident Analysis and Prevention. 2007;39:581–590. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2006.10.003.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Donmez B, Boyle LN, Lee JD. Mitigating driver distraction with retrospective and concurrent
feedback. Accident Analysis and Prevention. 2008;40:776–786. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2007.09.023.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Evans L. The effectiveness of safety belts in preventing
fatalities. Accident Analysis and Prevention. 1986;18:229–241. doi: 10.1016/0001-4575(86)90007-2.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Farmer CM, Kirkey BB, McCartt AT. Effects of in-vehicle monitoring on the driving behavior of
teenagers. Journal of Safety Research. 2010;41:39–45. doi: 10.1016/j.jsr.2009.12.002.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Fitch GA, Soccolich SA, Guo F, McClafferty J, Fang Y, Olson RL, et al. Dingus TA.  Report no DOT HS 811 757. Washington, DC: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; 2013. The impact of hand-held and hands-free cell phone use on driving
performance and safety-critical event risk.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Harris AD, Bradham DD, Baumgarten M, Zuckerman IH, Fink JC, Perencevich EN. The use and interpretation of quasi-experimental studies in
infectious diseases. Clinical Infectious Diseases. 2004;38:1586–1591. doi: 10.1086/420936.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Hickman JS, Geller ES. Self-management to increase safe driving among short-haul truck
drivers. Journal of Organizational Behavior Management. 2003;23:1–20.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Hickman JS, Hanowski RJ.  Report no FMCSA-RRR-10-033. US Department of Transportation, Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration; 2010. Evaluating the safety benefits of a low-cost driving behavior
management system in commercial vehicle operations; p. 54.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Hickman JS, Hanowski RJ. Use of a video monitoring approach to reduce at-risk driving
behaviors in commercial vehicle operations. Transportation Research Part F. 2011;14:189–198.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Hickman JS, Hanowski RJ, Bocanegra J.  Report to US. Vol. 2010. Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration; Washington, DC: 2010. Sep, Distraction in commercial trucks and buses: assessing prevalence
and risk in conjunction with crashes and near-crashes; p. 61.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Horrey WJ, Lesch MF, Dainoff MJ, Robertson MM, Noy YI. On-board safety monitoring systems for driving: Review, knowledge
gaps, and framework. Journal of Safety Research. 2012;43:49–58. doi: 10.1016/j.jsr.2011.11.004.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Hosmer DW, Lemeshow S.  Applied logistic regression. 2nd. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons; 2000. p. 375.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Huang WS, Lai CH. Survival risk factors for fatal injured car and motorcycle
drivers in single alcohol-related and alcohol-unrelated vehicle
crashes. Journal of Safety Research. 2011;42:93–99. doi: 10.1016/j.jsr.2011.01.005.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IAOGP) Implementing an in-vehicle monitoring program — a guide
for the oil and gas extraction industry. Land transportation safety recommended practice guidance note 12
v.2. 2014 Mar;2014
 [
Google Scholar
]
Jones S. Driving heavy vehicle safety through technology: challenges,
results and lessons learned at Toll Group: a contextual
overview. Journal of the Australasian College of Road Safety. 2016;27:42–47.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Kang K, Oah S, Dickinson AM. The relative effects of different frequencies of feedback on work
performance: A simulation. Journal of Organizational Behavior Management. 2003;23:21–53.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Lee JD, McGehee DV, Brown TL, Reyes ML. Collision warning timing, driver distraction, and driver response
to imminent read-end collision in a high-fidelity driving
simulator. Human Factors. 2002;44:314. doi: 10.1518/0018720024497844.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Lee LK, Monuteaux MC, Burghardt LC, Fleegler EW, Nigrovic LE, Meehan WP, … Mannix R. Motor vehicle crash fatalities in states with primary versus
secondary seat belt laws: A time-series analysis. Annals of Internal Medicine. 2015;163:184–190. doi: 10.7326/M14-2368.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Leung S, Croft RJ, Jackson ML, Howard ME, Mckenzie RJ. Comparison of the effect of mobile phone use and alcohol
consumption on driving simulation performance. Traffic Injury Prevention. 2012;13:566–574. doi: 10.1080/15389588.2012.683118.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Levick NR, Swanson J. An optimal solution for enhancing ambulance safety: Implementing
a driver performance feedback and monitoring device in ground emergency
medical service vehicles. Paper presented at The Association for the Advancement of Automotive
Medicine, 49th Annual Proceedings; September 12–14, 2005; 2005. pp. 36–50.
 [
PMC free article
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Lisk D, Cruice F, Pollard T. How Perdue Farms, Inc. implemented a video-based driver risk
management program. American Society of Safety Engineers (ASSE) Professional Development
Conference and Exposition, Session 692; 24–27 June, 2012; Las Vegas, Nevada USA. 2013. 
 [
Google Scholar
]
McGehee DV, Raby M, Carney C, Lee JD, Reyes ML. Extending parental monitoring using an event-triggered
intervention in rural teen drivers. Journal of Safety Research. 2007;38:215–227. doi: 10.1016/j.jsr.2007.02.009.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
McKeever JD, Schultheis MT, Padmanaban V, Blasco A. Driver performance while texting: even a little is too
much. Traffic Injury Prevention. 2013;14:132–137. doi: 10.1080/15389588.2012.699695.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Merrikhpour M, Donmez B, Battista V. A field operational trial evaluating a feed-back reward system on
speeding and tailgating behaviors. Transportation Research Part F. 2014;27:56–68.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Miller JW, Saldhana JP, Hunt CS, Mello JE. Combining formal controls to improve firm
performance. Journal of Business Logistics. 2013;34:301–318.
 [
Google Scholar
]
National Highway Traffic Safety Association (NHTSA) NHTSA Fourth Report to Congress: Effectiveness of occupant protection
systems and their use. Washington DC: Department of Transportation (DOT HS 818 909); 1999. 
 [
Google Scholar
]
Newnam S, Lewis I, Watson B. Occupational driver safety: Conceptualising a leadership-based
intervention to improve safe driving performance. Accident Analysis and Prevention. 2012;45:29–38. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2011.11.003.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
NIOSH. DHHS NIOSH publication 2015-111. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for Occupational Safety
and Health; 2015. NIOSH Center for Motor Vehicle Safety: Preventing work-related
motor vehicle crashes.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Office of Management and Budget. 2007 NAICS (North American Industry Classification System) United States
Manual. Office of Management and Budget Executive Office of the
President; 2007. 
 [
Google Scholar
]
Olson R, Austin J. Behavior-based safety and working alone: The effects of a
self-monitoring package on the safe performance of bus
operators. Journal of Organizational Behavior Management. 2001;21:5–43.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Pan W. Akaike's information criterion in generalized estimating
equations. Biometrics. 2001;57:120–125. doi: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.2001.00120.x.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Pitera K, Boyle LN, Goodchild AV.  Economic analysis of onboard monitoring system in commercial vehicles
Transportation research record: journal of the Transportation Research
Board. Vol. 2379. Washington, D.C.: Transportation Research Board of the National
Academies; 2013. pp. 64–71.pp. 64–71.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Quintana R. A task-delineated safety approach for slip, trip and fall
hazards. Safety Science. 1999;33:31–45.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Retzer KD, Hill RD, Pratt SG. Motor vehicle fatalities among oil and gas extraction
workers. Accident Analysis and Prevention. 2013;51:168–174. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2012.11.005.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Roberts SC, Horrey WJ, Liang Y. Measurement of driver calibration and the impact of feedback on
drivers' estimates of performance. Accident Analysis and Prevention. 2016;88:150–158. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2015.12.013.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Rothman KJ, Greenland S.  Modern epidemiology. 2nd. Philadelphia, PA: Lippencott-Raven Publishers; 1998. p. 738.
 [
Google Scholar
]
SAS Institute Inc. SAS/STAT® 9.3 user's guide. Cary,NC: Author; 2011. 
 [
Google Scholar
]
Shults RA, Haegerich TM, Bhat G, Zhang X. Teens and seat belt use: What makes them click? Journal of Safety Research. 2016;57:19–25. doi: 10.1016/j.jsr.2016.03.003.
 [
DOI
] [
PMC free article
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Sieber WK, Robinson CF, Birdsey J, Chen GX, Hitchcock T, Lincoln JE, et al. Sweeney MH. Obesity and other risk factors: the national survey of U.S.
long-haul truck driver health and injury. American Journal of Industrial Medicine. 2014;57:615–626. doi: 10.1002/ajim.22293.
 [
DOI
] [
PMC free article
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Sigurdsson S, Taylor MA, Wirth O. Discounting the value of safety: Effects of perceived risk and
effort. Journal of Safety Research. 2013;46:127–134. doi: 10.1016/j.jsr.2013.04.006.
 [
DOI
] [
PMC free article
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Simons-Morton BG, Simons-Morton C, Bingham R, Ouimet MC, Pradhan AK, Chen R, et al. Shope JT. The effect on teenage risky driving of feedback from a safety
MonitoringSystem: A randomized controlled trial. Journal of Adolescent Health. 2013;53(2013):21e26. doi: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2012.11.008.
 [
DOI
] [
PMC free article
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Smith G, Jones S. In-truck cameras at Toll NQX. Journal of the Australasian College of Road Safety. 2016;27:47–52.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Stokes ME, Davis CS, Koch GG.  Categorical data analysis using the SAS system. Cary, NC: SAS Institute Inc; 1995. p. 499.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Toledo T, Musicant O, Lotan T. In-vehicle data recorders for monitoring and feedback on
drivers' behavior. Transportation Research Part C. 2008;16:320–331.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Walker G.  Common statistical methods for clinical research with SAS
examples. Cary, NC: SAS Institute Inc; 1997. p. 315.
 [
Google Scholar
]
Wilson FA, Stimpson JP. Trends in fatalities from distracted driving in the United
States, 1999 to 2008. American Journal of Public Health. 2010;100:2213–2219. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.187179.
 [
DOI
] [
PMC free article
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Wu KF, Ageuro-Valverde J, Jovanis PP. Using naturalistic driving data to explore the association
between traffic safety-related events and crash risk at the driver
level. Accident Analysis and Prevention. 2014;72:210–218. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2014.07.005.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
Zohar D. Modifying supervisory practices to improve subunit safety: A
leadership-based intervention model. Journal of Applied Psychology. 2002;87:156–163. doi: 10.1037/0021-9010.87.1.156.
 [
DOI
] [
PubMed
] [
Google Scholar
]
ACTIONS
View on publisher site
PDF (502.9 KB)
Cite
Collections
Permalink
PERMALINK
Copy
RESOURCES
                            Similar articles
                             Cited by other articles
                                 Links to NCBI Databases
Cite
Copy
Download .nbib
.nbib
Format:
        AMA
        APA
        MLA
        NLM
Add to Collections
Create a new collection
Add to an existing collection
                Name your collection
*
                Choose a collection
                Unable to load your collection due to an error
Please try again
          Add
          Cancel
                Follow NCBI
NCBI on X (formerly known as Twitter)
NCBI on Facebook
NCBI on LinkedIn
NCBI on GitHub
NCBI RSS feed
                            Connect with NLM
NLM on X (formerly known as Twitter)
NLM on Facebook
NLM on YouTube
National Library of Medicine
 8600 Rockville Pike
 Bethesda, MD 20894
            Web Policies
            FOIA
            HHS Vulnerability Disclosure
            Help
            Accessibility
            Careers
            NLM
            NIH
            HHS
            USA.gov
Back to Top
